<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20180206_10-K_edgar_data_1652044_0001652044-18-000007_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>14110886</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>316211</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>891891</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4974223</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>5899361</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1756386</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>92</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001652044-18-000007.hdr.sgml : 20180206
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20180205204629
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001652044-18-000007
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		104
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20171231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20180206
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20180205

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Alphabet Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001652044
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-COMPUTER PROGRAMMING, DATA PROCESSING, ETC. [7370]
		IRS NUMBER:				611767919
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-37580
		FILM NUMBER:		18575994

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1600 AMPHITHEATRE PARKWAY
		CITY:			MOUNTAIN VIEW
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94043
		BUSINESS PHONE:		650-253-0000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1600 AMPHITHEATRE PARKWAY
		CITY:			MOUNTAIN VIEW
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94043

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001652044-18-000007.txt : 20180206

10-K
 1
 goog10-kq42017.htm
 FORM 10-K

Document 

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549 
  ___________________________________________ 
  FORM 10-K 
  ___________________________________________ 
  (Mark One) 

For the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2017 
  OR 

For the transition period from                  to                 . 
  Commission file number:   001-37580 
  ___________________________________________ 
  Alphabet Inc. 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
  ___________________________________________ 

___________________________________________ 
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
                 Title of each class 
    Name of each exchange on which registered 
      Class A Common Stock, $0.001 par value 
    Nasdaq Stock Market LLC 
  (Nasdaq Global Select Market) 
      Class C Capital Stock, $0.001 par value 
    Nasdaq Stock Market LLC 
  (Nasdaq Global Select Market) 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
               Title of each class 
      None 

___________________________________________ 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes           No      
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes           No      
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes           No      
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes           No      

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer,   smaller reporting company,  and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 
                       Large accelerated filer 

Accelerated filer 
      
      Non-accelerated filer (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 

Smaller reporting company 
      
      Emerging growth company 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.                                
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes           No      
  As of   June 30, 2017  , the aggregate market value of shares held by non-affiliates of the registrant (based upon the closing sale prices of such shares on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on   June 30, 2017  ) was approximately   $554.3 billion  . For purposes of calculating the aggregate market value of shares held by non-affiliates, we have assumed that all outstanding shares are held by non-affiliates, except for shares held by each of our executive officers, directors and 5% or greater stockholders. In the case of 5% or greater stockholders, we have not deemed such stockholders to be affiliates unless there are facts and circumstances which would indicate that such stockholders exercise any control over our company, or unless they hold 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. These assumptions should not be deemed to constitute an admission that all executive officers, directors and 5% or greater stockholders are, in fact, affiliates of our company, or that there are not other persons who may be deemed to be affiliates of our company. Further information concerning shareholdings of our officers, directors and principal stockholders is included or incorporated by reference in Part III, Item 12 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  As of   January 31, 2018  , there were   298,492,525   shares of the registrant s Class A common stock outstanding,   46,961,288   shares of the registrant s Class B common stock outstanding, and   349,843,717   shares of the registrant s Class C capital stock outstanding. 
  ___________________________________________ 
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Portions of the registrant s Proxy Statement for the   2018   Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated herein by reference in Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the extent stated herein. Such proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days of the registrant s fiscal year ended   December 31, 2017  . 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Alphabet Inc. 
  Form 10-K 
  For the Fiscal Year Ended   December 31, 2017    
  TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 
       Note About Forward-Looking Statements  
    1 

PART I 

Item 1. 
     Business  
    3 
      Item 1A. 
     Risk Factors  
    7 
      Item 1B. 
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    20 
      Item 2. 
     Properties  
    20 
      Item 3. 
     Legal Proceedings  
    20 
      Item 4. 
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    20 

PART II 

Item 5. 
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    21 
      Item 6. 
     Selected Financial Data  
    25 
      Item 7. 
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    26 
      Item 7A. 
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    43 
      Item 8. 
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    45 
      Item 9. 
     Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    84 
      Item 9A. 
     Controls and Procedures  
    84 
      Item 9B. 
     Other Information  
    85 

PART III 

Item 10. 
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    86 
      Item 11. 
     Executive Compensation  
    86 
      Item 12. 
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
    86 
      Item 13. 
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    86 
      Item 14. 
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services  
    86 

PART IV 

Item 15. 
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  
    87 
      Item 16. 
     Form 10-K Summary  
    90 

i 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, among other things, statements regarding: 
             
    the growth of our business and revenues and our expectations about the factors that influence our success and trends in our business; 
                
    our plans to continue to invest in new businesses, products, services and technologies, systems, facilities, and infrastructure, to continue to hire aggressively and provide competitive compensation programs, as well as to continue to invest in acquisitions; 
                
    seasonal fluctuations in internet usage and advertiser expenditures, underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality, and macroeconomic conditions, which are likely to cause fluctuations in our quarterly results; 
                
    our expectation related to our renewable energy efforts; 
                
    the potential for declines in our revenue growth rate; 
                
    our expectation that we will continue to take steps to improve the relevance of the ads we deliver and to reduce the number of accidental clicks; 
                
    fluctuations in the rate of change in revenue and revenue growth, as well as the rate of change in paid clicks and average cost-per-click and various factors contributing to such fluctuations; 
                
    our expectation that our foreign exchange risk management program will not fully offset our net exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; 
                
    the expected variability of costs related to hedging activities under our foreign exchange risk management program; 
                
    our expectation that our cost of revenues, research and development expenses, sales and marketing expenses, and general and administrative expenses will increase in dollars and may increase as a percentage of revenues; 
                
    our potential exposure in connection with pending investigations, proceedings, and other contingencies; 
                
    our expectation that our monetization trends will fluctuate, which could affect our revenues and margins in the future; 
                
    our expectation that our traffic acquisition costs (TAC) and the associated TAC rates will increase in the future; 
                
    our expectation that our results will be impacted by our performance in international markets as users in developing economies increasingly come online; 
                
    our expectation that the portion of our revenues that we derive from non-advertising revenues will continue to increase and may impact margins; 
                
    our expectation that our other income (expense), net, will fluctuate in the future, as it is largely driven by market dynamics; 
                
    estimates of our future compensation expenses; 
                
    fluctuations in our effective tax rate; 
                
    the impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act); 
                
    the sufficiency of our sources of funding; 
                
    our payment terms to certain advertisers, which may increase our working capital requirements; 
                
    fluctuations in our capital expenditures; 
                
    our expectations related to the operating structure implemented pursuant to the Alphabet holding company reorganization; 
                
    the expected timing and amount of Alphabet Inc.'s share repurchases; 
       
  as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects, and business strategies. Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this report and other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including without limitation, the following sections: Item 1 "Business," Item 1A "Risk Factors," and Item 7 "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by words such as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "projects," "will be," "will continue," "may," "could," "will likely result," and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in particular, the risks discussed under the caption "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. 
  
   1 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

As used herein, "Alphabet," "the company," "we," "us," "our," and similar terms include Alphabet Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. 
  "Alphabet," "Google," and other trademarks of ours appearing in this report are our property. This report contains additional trade names and trademarks of other companies. We do not intend our use or display of other companies' trade names or trademarks to imply an endorsement or sponsorship of us by such companies, or any relationship with any of these companies. 
  
   2 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

PART I 
   
                 ITEM 1. 
    BUSINESS 

Overview 
  As our founders Larry and Sergey wrote in the original founders' letter, "Google is not a conventional company. We do not intend to become one." That unconventional spirit has been a driving force throughout our history -- inspiring us to do things like rethink the mobile device ecosystem with Android and map the world with Google Maps. As part of that, our founders also explained that you could expect us to make "smaller bets in areas that might seem very speculative or even strange when compared to our current businesses." From the start, the company has always strived to do more, and to do important and meaningful things with the resources we have. 
  Alphabet is a collection of businesses -- the largest of which, of course, is Google. It also includes businesses that are generally pretty far afield of our main Internet products such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Nest, Verily, Waymo, and X. We report all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets. Our Alphabet structure is about helping each of our businesses prosper through strong leaders and independence. 
  Access and technology for everyone 
  The Internet is one of the world s most powerful equalizers, capable of propelling new ideas and people forward. At Google, our mission is to make sure that information serves everyone, not just a few. So whether you're a child in a rural village or a professor at an elite university, you can access the same information. We are helping people get online by tailoring digital experiences to the needs of emerging markets. We're also making sure our core Google products are fast and useful, especially for users in areas where speed and connectivity are central concerns. 
  Other Alphabet companies are also pursuing initiatives with similar goals. For instance, in October 2017, Project Loon within X deployed its network of stratospheric balloons to deliver basic internet connectivity to more than 100,000 people in Puerto Rico following Hurricane Maria. 
  Moonshots 
  Many companies get comfortable doing what they have always done, making only incremental changes. This incrementalism leads to irrelevance over time, especially in technology, where change tends to be revolutionary, not evolutionary. People thought we were crazy when we acquired YouTube and Android and when we launched Chrome, but those efforts have matured into major platforms for digital video and mobile devices and a safer, popular browser. We continue to look toward the future and continue to invest for the long-term. As we said in the original founders' letter, we will not shy away from high-risk, high-reward projects that we believe in because they are the key to our long-term success. 
  The power of machine learning 
  Across the company, machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) are increasingly driving many of our latest innovations. Within Google, our investments in machine learning over a decade have enabled us to build products that are smarter and more useful -- it's what allows you to use your voice to ask the Google Assistant for information, to translate the web from one language to another, to see better YouTube recommendations, and to search for people and events in Google Photos. Machine learning is also showing great promise in helping us tackle big issues, like dramatically improving the energy efficiency of our data centers. Across Other Bets, machine learning helps self-driving cars better detect and respond to others on the road, and can also improve the ability of clinicians to detect diseases such as diabetic retinopathy. 
  Google 
  Serving our users 
  We have always been a company committed to making big bets that have the potential to improve the lives of millions of people. Our product innovations have made our services widely used, and our brand one of the most recognized in the world. Google's core products and platforms such as Android, Chrome, Gmail, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube each have over one billion monthly active users. But most important, we believe we are just beginning to scratch the surface. Our vision is to remain a place of incredible creativity and innovation that uses our technical expertise to tackle big problems. As the majority of Alphabet s big bets continue to reside within Google, an important benefit of the shift to Alphabet has been the tremendous focus that we re able to have on Google s many extraordinary opportunities.  
  
   3 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Google s mission to organize the world s information and make it universally accessible and useful has always been our North Star, and our products have come a long way since the company was founded nearly two decades ago. Instead of just showing ten blue links in our search results, we are increasingly able to provide direct answers -- even if you're speaking your question using Voice Search -- which makes it quicker, easier and more natural to find what you're looking for. You can also type or talk with the Google Assistant in a conversational way across multiple devices like phones, speakers, headphones, televisions and more. And with Google Lens, you can now use your phone s camera to identify an unfamiliar landmark or find a trailer from a movie poster. Over time, we have also added other services that let you access information quickly and easily -- like Google Maps, which helps you navigate to a store while showing you current traffic conditions, or Google Photos, which helps you store and organize your photos. 
  This drive to make information more accessible has led us over the years to improve the discovery and creation of digital content, on the web and through platforms like Google Play and YouTube. And with the migration to mobile, people are consuming more digital content by watching more videos, playing more games, listening to more music, reading more books, and using more apps than ever before. Working with content creators and partners, we continue to build new ways for people around the world to find great digital content. 
  Fueling all of these great digital experiences are powerful platforms and hardware. That s why we continue to invest in platforms like our Android mobile operating system, Chrome browser, Chrome operating system, and Daydream virtual reality platform, as well as growing our family of great hardware devices. We see tremendous potential for devices to be helpful, make your life easier, and even get better over time, by combining the best of Google's AI, software, and hardware. This is reflected in our latest generation of hardware products like the newest additions to the Google Home family called Mini and Max, Pixel 2 phone, and Pixelbook laptop. Creating beautiful products that people rely on every day is a journey that we are investing in for the long run. 
  Google was a company built in the cloud and has been investing in infrastructure, security, data management, analytics, and AI from the very beginning. We have   continued to enhance these strengths with features like   data migration, modern development environments and machine learning tools to provide enterprise-ready cloud services, including Google Cloud Platform and G Suite, to our customers. Google Cloud Platform enables developers to build, test, and deploy applications on Google s highly scalable and reliable infrastructure. Our G Suite productivity tools -- which include apps like Gmail, Docs, Drive, Calendar, Hangouts, and more -- are designed with real-time collaboration and machine intelligence to help people work smarter. Because more and more of today s great digital experiences are being built in the cloud, our Google Cloud products help businesses of all sizes take advantage of the latest technology advances to operate more efficiently. 
  How we make money 
  The goal of our advertising business is to deliver relevant ads at just the right time and to give people useful commercial information, regardless of the device they re using. We also provide advertisers with tools that help them better attribute and measure their advertising campaigns across screens. Our advertising solutions help millions of companies grow their businesses, and we offer a wide range of products across screens and formats. We generate revenues primarily by delivering both performance advertising and brand advertising. 
             
    Perf  ormance advertising   creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click on, leading to direct engagement with advertisers. Most of our performance advertisers pay us when a user engages in their ads. Performance advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable results. 
          
  For performance advertisers, AdWords, our primary auction-based advertising program, helps create simple text-based ads that appear on Google properties and the properties of Google Network Members. In addition, Google Network Members use our AdSense program to display relevant ads on their properties, generating revenues when site visitors view or click on the ads. We continue to invest in our advertising programs and make significant upgrades. 

Brand advertising   helps enhance users' awareness of and affinity with advertisers' products and services, through v  ideos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across various devices. We help brand advertisers deliver digital videos and other types of ads to specific audiences for their brand-building marketing campaigns. 
          
  We have built a world-class ad technology platform for brand advertisers, agencies, and publishers to power their digital marketing businesses. We aim to ensure great user experiences by serving the right ads at the right time and by building deep partnerships with brands and agencies. We also seek to improve the measurability of brand advertising so advertisers know when their campaigns are effective. 
  
   4 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

We have allocated substantial resources to stopping bad advertising practices and protecting users on the web. We focus on creating the best advertising experiences for our users and advertisers in many ways, ranging from filtering out invalid traffic, removing hundreds of millions of bad ads from our systems every year to closely monitoring the sites, apps, and videos where ads appear and blacklisting them when necessary to ensure that ads do not fund bad content. 
  Beyond our advertising business, we also generate revenues in other areas, such as digital content, enterprise cloud services, and hardware. 
  Other Bets 
  Throughout Alphabet, we are also using technology to try and solve big problems across many industries. Alphabet s Other Bets are early-stage businesses, and our goal is for them to become thriving, successful businesses in the medium to long term. To do this, we make sure we have a strong CEO to run each company while also rigorously handling capital allocation and working to make sure each business is executing well.  
  While these early-stage businesses naturally come with considerable uncertainty, some of them are already generating revenue and making important strides in their industries. For instance, Nest recently expanded its connected home product line by introducing the Nest Thermostat E and a new home security solution that includes the Nest Hello video doorbell, Nest Cam IQ outdoor security camera, and the Nest Secure alarm system. Our self-driving car company, Waymo, continues to progress the development and testing of its technology and now has a fleet of vehicles in Phoenix, Arizona, driving without a person behind the wheel. Life sciences company Verily has also made significant progress on key programs, like the launch of its Project Baseline study with Duke University and Stanford Medicine, and received an $800 million investment in 2017 from Temasek to accelerate its strategic programs.  
  We continue to build these businesses thoughtfully and systematically to capitalize on the opportunities ahead. We are investing for the long term while being very deliberate about the focus, scale and pace of investments. We generate revenues from internet and TV services, licensing and R D services, and Nest branded hardware. 
  Competition 
  Our business is characterized by rapid change as well as new and disruptive technologies. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business, particularly from companies that seek to connect people with online information and provide them with relevant advertising. We face competition from: 
             
    General purpose search engines and information services, such as Baidu, Microsoft's Bing, Naver, Seznam, Verizon's Yahoo, and Yandex. 
                
    Vertical search engines and e-commerce websites, such as Amazon and eBay (e-commerce), Kayak (travel queries), LinkedIn (job queries), and WebMD (health queries). Some users will navigate directly to such content, websites, and apps rather than go through Google. 
                
    Social networks, such as Facebook, Snap, and Twitter. Some users increasingly rely on social networks for product or service referrals, rather than seeking information through traditional search engines. 
                
    Other forms of advertising, such as billboards, magazines, newspapers, radio, and television. Our advertisers typically advertise in multiple media, both online and offline. 
                
    Other online advertising platforms and networks, including Amazon, AppNexus, Criteo, and Facebook, that compete for advertisers that use AdWords, our primary auction-based advertising platform. 
                
    Providers of digital video services, such as Amazon, Facebook, Hulu, and Netflix. 
                
    Companies that design, manufacture, and market consumer electronics products, including businesses that have developed proprietary platforms. 
                
    Providers of enterprise cloud services, including Alibaba, Amazon, and Microsoft. 
                
    Digital assistant providers, such as Amazon, Apple, and Microsoft. 
     Competing successfully in our advertising-related businesses depends heavily on our ability to deliver and distribute innovative products and technologies to the marketplace so that we can attract and retain: 
             
    Users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, primarily on the basis of the relevance and usefulness of our search results and the features, availability, and ease of use of our products and services. 
                
    Advertisers, primarily based on our ability to generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, and to deliver their advertisements in an efficient and effective manner across a variety of distribution channels. 
     
   5 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Content providers, primarily based on   the quality of our advertiser base, our ability to help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms of our agreements with them. 
     Intellectual Property 
  We rely on various intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks, service marks, domain names and copyrights. We have also filed patent applications in the U.S. and foreign countries covering certain of our technology, and acquired patent assets to supplement our portfolio. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our rights to other parties. 
  Culture and Employees 
  We take great pride in our culture. We embrace collaboration and creativity, and encourage the iteration of ideas to address complex technical challenges. Transparency and open dialogue are central to how we work, and we like to ensure that company news reaches our employees first through internal channels. 
  Despite our rapid growth, we still cherish our roots as a startup and wherever possible empower employees to act on great ideas regardless of their role or function within the company. We strive to hire great employees, with backgrounds and perspectives as diverse as those of our global users. We work to provide an environment where these talented people can have fulfilling careers addressing some of the biggest challenges in technology and society. 
  Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. We expect to continue investing in hiring talented employees and to provide competitive compensation programs to our employees. As of   December 31, 2017  , we had   80,110   full-time employees. Although we have work councils and statutory employee representation obligations in certain countries, our U.S. employees are not represented by a labor union. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, particularly for software engineers, computer scientists, and other technical staff. 
  Seasonality 
  Our business is affected by seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage, advertising expenditures, and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality. 
  Other Items 
  Climate change is one of the most significant global challenges of our time, and we ve long been committed to improving our energy consumption. In 2012, we set a goal to reach 100% renewable energy for our operations. While we are still performing final analysis for the year, in 2017, we purchased a total wind and solar capacity of about three gigawatts, which we expect will be enough renewables to match the energy consumption of our global operations. 
  We continue to invest in our existing products and services as well as developing new products and services through research and product development. We often release early-stage products. We then use data and user feedback to decide if and how to invest further in those products. Research and development expenses include the vast majority of engineering and technical headcount responsible for research and development of our existing and new products and services, as well as their associated costs. For more information, please refer to the Consolidated Statements of Income included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  For information about segments and geographic areas, please refer to   Note 15   of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  As part of the Alphabet reorganization, we converted Google Inc. into a limited liability company in September 2017. 
  Available Information 
  Our website is located at www.abc.xyz, and our investor relations website is located at www.abc.xyz/investor. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our Proxy Statements are available through our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file them with the SEC. We also provide a link to the section of the SEC's website at www.sec.gov that has all of the reports that we file or furnish with the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can get information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 
  We webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community. Our investor relations website also provides notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs. Further corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws,  
  
   6 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading "Other." The content of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 
   
                 ITEM 1A. 
    RISK FACTORS 

Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common and capital stock. 
  Risks Related to Our Businesses and Industries 
  We face intense competition. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected.  
  Our businesses are rapidly evolving, intensely competitive, and subject to changing technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. Competing successfully depends heavily on our ability to accurately anticipate technology developments and deliver innovative, relevant and useful products, services, and technologies to the marketplace in a timely manner. As our businesses evolve, the competitive pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of products and services, including products and services that may be outside of our historical core business. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, including through acquisitions, in order to enhance our technology and our existing products and services, and introduce new products and services that people can easily and effectively use. 
  We have many competitors in different industries. Our current and potential domestic and international competitors range from large and established companies to emerging start-ups. Some companies have longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers and users. They can use their experiences and resources in ways that could affect our competitive position, including by making acquisitions, continuing to invest heavily in research and development and in hiring talent, aggressively initiating intellectual property claims (whether or not meritorious), and continuing to compete aggressively for users, advertisers, and content providers. Emerging start-ups may be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can or may foresee the consumer need for products and services before us. 
  In addition, new products and services can sometimes present new and difficult technological and legal challenges, which may negatively impact our brands and demand for our products and services and adversely impact our revenues and operating results. Our operating results would also suffer if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our users, advertisers, and content providers; are not appropriately timed with market opportunities; or are not effectively brought to market. As technologies continue to develop, our competitors may be able to offer user experiences that are, or that are seen to be, substantially similar to or better than ours. This may force us to compete in different ways and expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing compelling products or in attracting and retaining users, advertisers, and content providers, our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. 
  We generate substantially all of our revenues from advertising, and reduced spending by advertisers or a loss of partners could harm our advertising business.  
  We generated over   86%   of total revenues from advertising in 2017. Many of our advertisers, companies that distribute our products and services, digital publishers, and content partners can terminate their contracts with us at any time. Those partners may not continue to do business with us if we do not create more value (such as increased numbers of users or customers, new sales leads, increased brand awareness, or more effective monetization) than their available alternatives. If we do not provide superior value or deliver advertisements efficiently and competitively, we could see a decrease in revenue and other adverse impacts to our business. In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. Adverse macroeconomic conditions can also have a material negative impact on user activity and the demand for advertising and cause our advertisers to reduce the amounts they spend on advertising, which could adversely affect our revenues and advertising business. 
  
   7 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Our ongoing investment in new businesses and new products, services, and technologies is inherently risky, and could disrupt our current operations. 
  We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new businesses, products, services, and technologies. The creation of Alphabet as a holding company in 2015   and the investments that we are making across various areas in Google and Other Bets are a reflection of our ongoing efforts to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users.   Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including insufficient revenues from such investments to offset any new liabilities assumed and expenses associated with these new investments, inadequate return of capital on our investments, distraction of management from current operations, use of alternative investment or compensation structures, and unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence of such strategies and offerings that could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such investments and incur unanticipated liabilities. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful and will not adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
  The Internet is accessed through a variety of platforms and form factors that continue to evolve with the advancement of technology and user preferences. If manufacturers and users do not widely adopt versions of our search technology, products, or operating systems developed for these devices and modalities, our business could be adversely affected.  
  The number of people who access the Internet through devices other than desktop computers, including mobile phones, smartphones, laptops and tablets, video game consoles, voice-assisted speakers, automobiles, and television set-top devices, is increasing dramatically. The functionality and user experience associated with some alternative devices and modalities may make the use of our products and services or the generation of advertising revenue through such devices more difficult (or just different), and the versions of our products and services developed for these devices may not be compatible or compelling to users, manufacturers, or distributors of alternative devices. Each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for its devices, and our products and services may not work or be viewable on these devices as a result. Some manufacturers may also elect not to include our products on their devices. In addition, search queries are increasingly being undertaken via apps tailored to particular devices or social media platforms, which could affect our search and advertising business over time. As new devices and platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in adapting our products and services and developing competitive new products and services. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of products and services across multiple platforms and devices. If we are unable to attract and retain a substantial number of alternative device manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, developers, and users to our products and services, or if we are slow to develop products and technologies that are more compatible with alternative devices and platforms, we will fail to capture the opportunities available as consumers and advertisers continue to exist in a dynamic, multi-platform environment. 
  Our revenue growth rate could decline over time, and we anticipate downward pressure on our operating margin in the future.  
  Our revenue growth rate could decline over time as a result of a number of factors, including: 
             
    increasing competition, 
                
    changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, and property mix, 
                
    the challenges in maintaining our growth rate as our revenues increase to higher levels, 
                
    the evolution of the online advertising market, including the increasing variety of online platforms for advertising, and the other markets in which we participate, and 
                
    the rate of user adoption of our products, services, and technologies. 
     We believe our margins could experience downward pressure as a result of increasing competition and increased costs for many aspects of our business as well as the continuing shift to mobile, changes in device mix, and the contribution of new businesses to overall revenue. For instance, the margin on revenues we generate from our Google Network Members is significantly less than the margin on revenues we generate from advertising on Google properties. Consequently, our margins will experience downward pressure if a greater percentage of our revenues comes from ads placed on our Google Network Members' properties compared to revenues generated through ads placed on Google properties. Additionally, the margin we earn on revenues generated from our Google Network Members could decrease in the future if we pay an even larger percentage of advertising fees to our Google Network Members. 
  Furthermore, in our multi-device world, we generate our advertising revenues increasingly from mobile and newer advertising formats, and the margins from the advertising revenues from these sources have generally been lower than those from traditional desktop search. We also expect our TAC paid to our distribution partners to increase due to changes in device mix between mobile, desktop, and tablet, partner mix, partner agreement terms, and the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points. 
  
   8 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Additionally, our margins could experience downward pressure as revenues from the sale of hardware products and cloud-based services increase as a percentage of consolidated revenues because the margin on the sale of these products and services have generally been lower than that from Google search. Furthermore, our margins could be impacted adversely if we spend a proportionately larger amount to promote new products and services or distribute certain products or if we invest more heavily in our innovation efforts across the Company (such as our Other Bets businesses) than we have historically. 
  We are subject to increasing regulatory scrutiny that may negatively impact our business. Additionally, changes in public policies governing a wide range of topics may adversely affect our business.  
  The growth of our company and our expansion into a variety of new fields involves a variety of new regulatory issues, and we have experienced increased regulatory scrutiny as we have grown. For instance, various regulatory agencies are reviewing aspects of our search and other businesses, which can lead to increased scrutiny from other regulators and legislators, that may affect our reputation, brand and third-party relationships. Such reviews may also result in substantial regulatory fines, changes to our business practices and other penalties, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. We continue to cooperate with the European Commission and other regulatory authorities around the world in investigations they are conducting with respect to our business. 
  Additionally, changes in social, political, and regulatory conditions or in laws and policies governing a wide range of topics may disrupt our business practices. These changes could negatively impact our business and results of operations in material ways. 
  A variety of new and existing laws could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business.  
  We are subject to numerous U.S. and international laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters. New laws and regulations (or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations) may make our products and services less useful, require us to incur substantial costs, expose us to unanticipated civil or criminal liability, or cause us to change our business practices. For example, current and new patent laws such as U.S. patent laws and European patent laws may affect the ability of companies, including us, to protect their innovations and defend against claims of patent infringement. Similarly, changes to copyright laws being considered in Europe and elsewhere may increase costs or require companies, including us, to change or cease offering certain existing services. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations are high and are likely to increase in the future. 
  Claims have been, or may be, threatened and filed against us under both U.S. and international laws for defamation, invasion of privacy and other tort claims, unlawful activity, patent, copyright and trademark infringement, product liability, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched and the ads posted by our users, our products and services, or content generated by our users. Furthermore, many of these laws do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by a number of our new businesses, products, services and technologies. In addition, the applicability and scope of these laws, as interpreted by the courts, remain uncertain. 
  Other laws that could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business include, among others: 
             
    We rely   on statutory safe harbors, as set forth in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in the United States and the E-Commerce Directive in Europe, against copyright liability for various linking, caching, and hosting activities. Any legislation or court rulings impacting these safe harbors may adversely impact us. 
                
    The General Data Protection Regulation, coming into effect in the European Union in May of 2018, which creates a range of new compliance obligations, which could cause us to change our business practices, and will increase financial penalties for noncompliance significantly. 
                
    Court decisions such as the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on May 13, 2014 on the  right to be forgotten,  which allows individuals to demand that Google remove search results about them in certain instances, may limit the content we can show to our users and impose significant operational burdens. 
                
    Court decisions that require Google to suppress content not just in the jurisdiction of the issuing court, but for all of our users worldwide, including locations where the content at issue is lawful. The Supreme Court of Canada issued such a decision against Google in June 2017, and others could treat its decision as persuasive. For instance, with respect to the  right to be forgotten,  a follow-up case is pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union, which could result in an order to apply delisting actions under the  right to be forgotten  worldwide.  
                
    Various U.S. and international laws that restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors. 
     
   9 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Various laws with regards to content removal and disclosure obligations, such as the recently enacted Network Enforcement Act in Germany, which may impact our businesses and operations and may subject us to significant fines if such laws are interpreted and applied in a manner inconsistent with our practices. 
                
    Data protection laws passed by many states within the U.S. and by certain countries that require notification to users when there is a security breach of personal data. 
                
    Data localization laws, which generally mandate that certain types of data collected in a particular country be stored and/or processed within that country. 
                
    Privacy laws, which could b  e interpreted over-broadly to limit some product offerings and increase costs. 
     We face risks and costs overseas as our products and services are offered in international markets and may be subject to additional regulations. Any failure on our part to comply with these laws and regulations can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort and may subject us to significant liabilities and other penalties. 
  We are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. 
  We are regularly subject to claims, suits, and government investigations involving competition, intellectual property, privacy, consumer protection, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. The manufacturing and sale of an expanded suite of products, including hardware, further exposes us to the risk of product liability and other litigation as well as consumer protection concerns related to product defects, as well as health and safety, hazardous materials usage, and other environmental concerns. We may also be subject to claims, including product warranty claims, if users experience service disruptions, failures, or other issues. In addition, our businesses face intellectual property litigation, as discussed later, that exposes us to the risk of exclusion and cease and desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell products and services. 
  Such claims, suits, and government investigations are inherently uncertain. Regardless of the outcome, any of these types of legal proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, and other factors. Determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant judgment. It is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in substantial fines and penalties that could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in a particular period. These proceedings could also result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, requiring a change in our business practices or product recalls or corrections, or requiring development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 
  We may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content.  
  We host and provide a wide variety of services and products that enable users to exchange information, advertise products and services, conduct business, and engage in various online activities both domestically and internationally. The law relating to the liability of providers of these online services and products for activities of their users is still somewhat unsettled both within the U.S. and internationally. Claims have been threatened and have been brought against us for defamation, negligence, breaches of contract, copyright or trademark infringement, unfair competition, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the nature and content of information that we publish or to which we provide links or that may be posted online or generated by us or by third parties, including our users. In addition, we are and have been and may again in the future be subject to domestic or international actions alleging that certain content we have generated or third-party content that we have made available within our services violates U.S. and international law. 
  We also place advertisements which are displayed on third-party publishers and advertising networks properties, and we offer third-party products, services, or content. We may be subject to claims concerning these products, services, or content by virtue of our involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting, or providing access to them, even if we do not ourselves host, operate, provide, or provide access to these products, services, or content. Defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources, which may result in monetary liabilities or penalties, and may require us to change our business in an adverse manner. 
  Privacy concerns relating to our technology could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users or customers from using our products and services. If our security measures are breached resulting in the improper use and disclosure of user data, or if our services are subject to attacks that degrade or deny the ability of users to access our products and services, our products and services may be perceived as not  
  
   10 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

being secure, users and customers may curtail or stop using our products and services, and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure.  
  From time to time, concerns have been expressed about whether our products, services, or processes compromise the privacy of users, customers, and others. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information or other privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. 
  Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of users  and customers  proprietary information, and theft and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, improper use and disclosure of such information, litigation, and potential liability. Any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the release of our users  data, or in our or our users  ability to access such data, could seriously harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business, and impair our ability to attract and retain users. We expect to continue to expend significant resources to maintain state-of-the-art security protections that shield against theft and security breaches.  
  We experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis. Our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities, including vulnerabilities of our vendors, suppliers, their products, or otherwise. Such breach or unauthorized access, increased government surveillance, or attempts by outside parties to fraudulently induce employees, users, or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or our users  or customers  data could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in the security of our products and services that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, become more sophisticated, and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Additionally, cyber attacks could also compromise trade secrets and other sensitive information and result in such information being disclosed to others and becoming less valuable, which could negatively affect our business. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose users and customers. 
  Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and international laws and regulation regarding privacy and data protection. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, penalties, increased cost of operations, or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business.  
  Regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, including measures to ensure that encryption of users  data does not hinder law enforcement agencies  access to that data. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. These legislative and regulatory proposals, if adopted, and such interpretations could, in addition to the possibility of fines, result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. 
  Recent legal developments in Europe have created compliance uncertainty regarding certain transfers of personal data from Europe to the United States. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), coming into application in the European Union (EU) on May 25, 2018, will apply to all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or related to products and services that we offer to EU users. The GDPR will create a range of new compliance obligations, which could cause us to change our business practices, and will significantly increase financial penalties for noncompliance (including possible fines of up to 4% of global annual turnover for the preceding financial year or  20 million (whichever is higher) for the most serious infringements). 
  In addition, the European Commission in July 2016 and the Swiss Government in January 2017 approved the EU-U.S. and the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield frameworks, respectively, which are designed to allow U.S. companies that self-certify to the U.S. Department of Commerce and publicly commit to comply with the Privacy Shield requirements to freely import personal data from the EU and Switzerland. However, these frameworks face a number of legal challenges and their validity remains subject to legal, regulatory and political developments in both Europe and the U.S. This has resulted in some uncertainty, and compliance obligations could cause us to incur costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. 
  
   11 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

We are, and may in the future be, subject to intellectual property or other claims, which are costly to defend, could result in significant damage awards, and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future.  
  Internet, technology, media, and other companies own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent holding companies may continue to seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained. As we have grown, the number of intellectual property claims against us has increased and may continue to increase as we develop new products, services, and technologies. 
  We have had patent, copyright, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties have also sought broad injunctive relief against us by filing claims in U.S. and international courts and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) for exclusion and cease and desist orders, which could limit our ability to sell our products or services in the U.S. or elsewhere if our products or services or those of our customers or suppliers are found to infringe the intellectual property subject to the claims. Adverse results in any of these lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements (if licenses are available at all), or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, and may also cause us to change our business practices and require development of non-infringing products, services or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business. 
  Many of our agreements with our customers and partners, including certain suppliers, require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which could increase our costs as a result of defending such claims, and may require that we pay significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Such customers and partners may also discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely impact our business. Moreover, intellectual property indemnities provided to us by our suppliers, when obtainable, may not cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers from covered products. Furthermore, in connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, including those associated with intellectual property claims. 
  Regardless of their merits, intellectual property claims are often time consuming, expensive to litigate or settle, and cause significant diversion of management attention. To the extent such claims are successful, they may have an adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 
  Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services, and brand.  
  Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services and technologies. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available through the Internet. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. Moreover, we may not have adequate patent or copyright protection for certain innovations that later turn out to be important. Furthermore, there is always the possibility, despite our efforts, that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. 
  We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. The secrecy of such trade secrets and other sensitive information could be compromised by outside parties, or by our employees, which could cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets. We also face risks associated with our trademarks. For example, there is a risk that the word  Google  could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with the word  search.  If this happens, we could lose protection for this trademark, which could result in other people using the word  Google  to refer to their own products, thus diminishing our brand. 
  Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. 
  Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, and divestitures could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other consequences that may adversely impact our business and results of operations.  
  Acquisitions, joint ventures, investments and divestitures are important elements of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital, and these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. We  
  
   12 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of potential strategic transactions. Effecting these strategic transactions could create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas where we face risks include, among others: 
             
    Diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to challenges related to acquisitions and other strategic transactions. 
                
    Failure to successfully further develop the acquired business or technology. 
                
    Implementation or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies at the acquired company. 
                
    Integration of the acquired company's accounting, human resource, and other administrative systems, and coordination of product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions. 
                
    Transition of operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms. 
                
    Failure to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval that could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or other strategic transaction. 
                
    In the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. 
                
    Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization, and retention of employees from the businesses we acquire. 
                
    Liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, privacy issues, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities. 
                
    Litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties. 
     Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and other strategic transactions could cause us to fail to realize their anticipated benefits, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. 
  Our acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or impairment of goodwill and/or purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could harm our financial condition or results. Also, the anticipated benefits or value of our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not materialize. In connection with our divestitures, we have agreed, and may in the future agree, to provide indemnification for certain potential liabilities, which may adversely impact our financial condition or results.  
  Our business depends on strong brands, and failing to maintain and enhance our brands would hurt our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers, content providers, and other partners.  
  Our strong brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the brands within Google and Other Bets increases our ability to enter new categories and launch new and innovative products that better serve the needs of our users. Our brands may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including, among others, reputational issues, third-party content shared on our platforms, data privacy issues and developments, and product or technical performance failures. For example, if we fail to appropriately respond to the sharing of objectionable content on our services or objectionable practices by advertisers, or to otherwise adequately address user concerns, our users may lose confidence in our brands. Our brands may also be negatively affected by the use of our products or services to disseminate information that is deemed to be misleading. 
  Furthermore, if we fail to maintain and enhance equity in the Google brand, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our success will depend largely on our ability to remain a technology leader and continue to provide high-quality, innovative products and services that are truly useful and play a meaningful role in people s everyday lives. 
  
   13 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

We face a number of manufacturing and supply chain risks that, if not properly managed, could adversely impact our financial results and prospects.  
  We face a number of risks related to manufacturing and supply chain management. These manufacturing and supply chain risks could impact our ability to supply both our products and our internet-based services. 
  We rely on third parties to manufacture many of our assemblies and finished products, third-party arrangements for the design of some components and parts, and third party distributors, including cellular network carriers. Our business could be negatively affected if we are not able to engage third parties with the necessary capabilities or capacity on reasonable terms, or if those we engage fail to meet their obligations (whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons), or make adverse changes in the pricing or other material terms of our arrangements with them. 
  We have in the past, and may experience in the future, supply shortages and price increases driven by raw material availability, manufacturing capacity, labor shortages, industry allocations, natural disasters and significant changes in the financial or business condition of our suppliers. We may experience shortages or other supply chain disruptions in the future that could negatively impact our operations. In addition, some of the components we use in our technical infrastructure and products are available only from a single source or limited sources, and we may not be able to find replacement vendors on favorable terms or at all in the event of a supply chain disruption. In addition, a significant hardware supply interruption could delay critical data center upgrades or expansions. 
  We may enter into long term contracts that commit us to significant terms and conditions of supply. We may be liable for material and product that is not consumed due to market acceptance, technological change, obsolescences, quality, product recalls, and warranty issues. For instance, because many of our hardware supply contracts have volume-based pricing or minimum purchase requirements, if the volume of our hardware sales decreases or does not reach projected targets, we could face increased materials and manufacturing costs or other financial liabilities that could make our products more costly per unit to manufacture and therefore less competitive and negatively impact our financial results. Furthermore, certain of our competitors may negotiate more favorable contractual terms based on volume and other commitments that may provide them with competitive advantages and may impact our supply. 
  Additionally, the products and services we sell or offer may have quality issues resulting from the design or manufacture of the product, or from the software used. Sometimes, these issues may be caused by components we purchase from other manufacturers or suppliers. If the quality of our products and services does not meet our customers  expectations or our products or services are found to be defective, then our sales and operating earnings, and ultimately our reputation, could be negatively impacted. 
  We also require our suppliers and business partners to comply with law and, where applicable, our company policies regarding workplace and employment practices, data security, environmental compliance and intellectual property licensing, but we do not control them or their practices. If any of them violates laws or implements practices regarded as unethical, we could experience supply chain disruptions, canceled orders, terminations of or damage to key relationships, and damage to our reputation. If any of them fails to procure necessary license rights to third-party intellectual property, legal action could ensue that could impact the saleability of our products and expose us to financial obligations to third parties. 
  The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act includes disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (DRC) and procedures pertaining to a manufacturer's efforts regarding the source of such minerals. SEC rules implementing these requirements may have the effect of reducing the pool of suppliers who can supply DRC conflict free components and parts, and we may not be able to obtain DRC conflict free products or supplies in sufficient quantities for our operations. Since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the minerals used in our products. 
  Web spam and content farms could decrease our search quality, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services.  
  Web spam refers to websites that attempt to violate a search engine's quality guidelines or that otherwise seek to rank higher in search results than a search engine's assessment of their relevance and utility would rank them. 
  Although English-language web spam in our search results has been significantly reduced, and web spam in most other languages is limited, we expect web spammers will continue to seek ways to improve their rankings inappropriately. We continuously combat web spam, including through indexing technology that makes it harder for spam-like, less useful web content to rank highly. We face challenges from low-quality and irrelevant content websites, including content farms, which are websites that generate large quantities of low-quality content to help them improve their search rankings. We are continually launching algorithmic changes focused on low-quality websites. If our search results display an increasing number of web spam and content farms, this could hurt our reputation for delivering  
  
   14 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

relevant information or reduce user traffic to our websites. In addition, as we continue to take actions to improve our search quality and reduce low-quality content, this may in the short run reduce our Google Network Members' revenues, since some of these websites are Google Network Members. 
  Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could hurt our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results.  
  The availability of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires, and increased storm severity), power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, or other attempts to harm our systems. Some of our data centers are located in areas with a high risk of major earthquakes or other natural disasters. Our data centers are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism, and to potential disruptions if the operators of certain of these facilities have financial difficulties. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision to close a facility we are using, or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. In addition, our products and services are highly technical and complex and may contain errors or vulnerabilities, which could result in interruptions in our services or the failure of our systems. 
  Our international operations expose us to additional risks that could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. 
  Our international operations are significant to our revenues and net income, and we plan to continue to grow internationally. International revenues accounted for approximately   53%   of our consolidated revenues in 2017. In certain international markets, we have limited operating experience and may not succeed. 
  In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international operations expose us to other risks, including the following: 
             
    Restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the U.S. 
                
    Import and export requirements, tariffs, trade disputes and barriers, and customs classifications that may prevent us from offering products or providing services to a particular market and may increase our operating costs. 
                
    Longer payment cycles in some countries, increased credit risk, and higher levels of payment fraud. 
                
    Evolving foreign laws and legal systems. 
                
    Uncertainty regarding liability for services and content, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of legal precedent. 
                
    Different employee/employer relationships, existence of workers' councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences, making it harder to do business in certain jurisdictions. 
     Additionally, changes in international local political, economic, regulatory, tax, social, and labor conditions may adversely harm our business, and compliance with complex international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include, among others, internal control and disclosure rules, privacy and data protection requirements, anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and competition regulations, among others. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, our international growth efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. 
  Finally, since we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Additionally, hedging programs are inherently risky and could expose us to additional risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 
  
   15 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. 
  Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly, year-to-date, and annual expenses as a percentage of our revenues may differ significantly from our historical or projected rates. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause our stock price to fall. Each of the risk factors listed in this section in addition to the following factors may affect our operating results: 
             
    Our ability to continue to attract and retain users to our products and services. 
                
    Our ability to monetize (or generate revenues from) traffic on Google properties and our Google Network Members' properties across various devices. 
                
    Revenue fluctuations caused by changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, and property mix. 
                
    The amount of revenues and expenses generated and incurred in currencies other than U.S. dollars, and our ability to manage the resulting risk through our foreign exchange risk management program. 
                
    The amount and timing of operating costs and expenses and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations, and infrastructure. 
                
    Our focus on long-term goals over short-term results. 
                
    The results of our acquisitions, divestitures, and our investments in risky projects, including new businesses, products, services, and technologies. 
                
    Our ability to keep our products and services operational at a reasonable cost and without service interruptions. 
                
    Our ability to attract user adoption of and generate significant revenues from new products, services, and technologies in which we have invested considerable time and resources. 
                
    The seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage, advertising spending, and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality. Our rapid growth has tended to mask the cyclicality and seasonality of our business. As our growth rate has slowed, the cyclicality and seasonality in our business has become more pronounced and caused our operating results to fluctuate. 
     Because our businesses are changing and evolving, our historical operating results may not be useful to you in predicting our future operating results.  
  If we were to lose the services of key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. 
  Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. In particular, Larry Page and Sergey Brin are critical to the overall management of Alphabet and its subsidiaries, and they, along with Sundar Pichai, the Chief Executive Officer of Google, play an important role in the development of our technology. They also play a key role in maintaining our culture and setting our strategic direction. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss of key personnel could seriously harm our business. 
  We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel, or maintain our corporate culture, we may not be able to grow effectively. 
  Our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense, and certain of our competitors have directly targeted our employees. In addition, our compensation arrangements, such as our equity award programs, may not always be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating our existing employees. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. 
  In addition, we believe that our corporate culture fosters innovation, creativity, and teamwork. As our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, particularly in light of our holding company structure, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively impact our future success. 
  
   16 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by us and our users. Internet access providers may be able to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers. 
  Our products and services depend on the ability of our users to access the Internet, and certain of our products require significant bandwidth to work effectively. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers. Some of these providers have taken, or have stated that they may take measures, including legal actions, that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of user access to certain of our products by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, or by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings. Some jurisdictions have adopted regulations prohibiting certain forms of discrimination by Internet access providers, but there is substantial uncertainty in the United States and elsewhere regarding such protections. In addition, in some jurisdictions, our products and services have been subject to government-initiated restrictions or blockages. Such interference could result in a loss of existing users, advertisers, and goodwill, and increased costs, and could impair our ability to attract new users and advertisers, thereby harming our revenues and growth. 
  New and existing technologies could block ads online, which would harm our business.  
  Technologies have been developed that enable users to block the display of ads altogether and some providers of online services have integrated technologies that could potentially impair the core functionality of third-party digital advertising. Most of our Google revenues are derived from fees paid to us in connection with the display of ads online. As a result, such technologies and tools could adversely affect our operating results. 
  We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our investments.  
  Given the global nature of our business, we have investments both domestically and internationally. Market values of these investments can be negatively impacted by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, financial results, foreign exchange rates, changes in interest rates, or other factors. As a result, the value or liquidity of our cash equivalents and marketable securities could decline and result in a material impairment, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. 
  We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities.  
  Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items.  
  In addition, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. As a result, we have received, and may in the future receive, assessments in multiple jurisdictions on various tax-related assertions, including transfer pricing adjustments or permanent establishment. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. 
  Furthermore, due to shifting economic and political conditions, tax policies, laws or rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, which could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. 
  The ongoing effects of the Tax Act and the refinement of provisional estimates could make our results difficult to predict. 
  Our effective tax rate may fluctuate in the future as a result of the Tax Act, which was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act introduces significant changes to U.S. income tax law that will have a meaningful impact on our provision for income taxes. Accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act requires significant judgments and estimates in the interpretation and calculations of the provisions of the Tax Act.  
  Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. The U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and other standard-setting bodies may issue guidance on how the provisions of the Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is  
  
   17 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

different from our interpretation. As we collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret the Tax Act and any additional guidance issued by the IRS or other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts that could materially affect our financial position and results of operations as well as our effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made.  
  Risks Related to Ownership of Our Stock 
  The trading price for our Class A common stock and non-voting Class C capital stock may continue to be volatile.  
  The trading price of our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility and may continue to be volatile. For example, from January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017, the closing price of our Class A common stock ranged from $807.77 per share to $1,085.09 per share, and the closing price of our Class C capital stock ranged from $786.14 to $1,077.14 per share. 
  In addition to the factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the trading price of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others: 
             
    Quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors. 
                
    Announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, divestitures, investments, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships, or capital commitments. 
                
    Recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates. 
                
    Announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations, the risk of which is enhanced because it is our policy not to give guidance on earnings. 
                
    Announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations. 
                
    Commentary by industry and market professionals about our products, strategies, and other matters affecting our business and results, regardless of its accuracy. 
                
    The volume of shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock available for public sale. 
                
    Sales of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock by us or by our stockholders (including sales by our directors, executive officers, and other employees). 
                
    Short sales, hedging, and other derivative transactions on shares of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock. 
                
    The perceived values of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock relative to one another. 
                
    Our share repurchase program. 
     In addition, the stock market in general, which can be impacted by various factors, including overall economic and political conditions, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may harm the market price of our Class A common stock and our Class C capital stock regardless of our actual operating performance. 
  We cannot guarantee that our share repurchase program will be fully consummated or that our share repurchase program will enhance long-term stockholder value, and share repurchases could increase the volatility of the price of our stock and could diminish our cash reserves.  
  In October 2016, our board of directors authorized our company to repurchase up to $7,019,340,976.83 of our Class C capital stock. In January 2018, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional$8,589,869,056 of our Class C capital stock. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. The share repurchase program, authorized by our board of directors, does not obligate Alphabet to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. The share repurchase program could affect the price of our stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our stock. 
  The concentration of our stock ownership limits our stockholders  ability to influence corporate matters.  
  Our Class B common stock has 10 votes per share, our Class A common stock has one vote per share, and our Class C capital stock has no voting rights. As of December 31, 2017, Larry, Sergey, and Eric E. Schmidt beneficially owned approximately 92.7% of our outstanding Class B common stock, which represented approximately 56.7% of  
  
   18 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. Larry, Sergey, and Eric therefore have significant influence over management and affairs and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets, for the foreseeable future. In addition, because our Class C capital stock carries no voting rights (except as required by applicable law), the issuance of the Class C capital stock, including in future stock-based acquisition transactions and to fund employee equity incentive programs, could prolong the duration of Larry and Sergey s current relative ownership of our voting power and their ability to elect all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Together with Eric, they would also continue to be able to control any required stockholder vote with respect to certain change in control transactions involving Alphabet (including an acquisition of Alphabet by another company). 
  This concentrated control limits or severely restricts our stockholders  ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock and our Class C capital stock could be adversely affected. 
  Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. 
  Provisions in Alphabet s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: 
             
    Our certificate of incorporation provides for a tri-class capital stock structure. As a result of this structure, Larry, Sergey, and Eric have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover, or other change of control transaction that other stockholders may view as beneficial. As noted above, the issuance of the Class C capital stock could have the effect of prolonging the influence of Larry, Sergey, and Eric. 
                
    Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors. 
                
    Our stockholders may not act by written consent. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock would not be able to take certain actions without holding a stockholders' meeting. 
                
    Our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors. This limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates. 
                
    Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders  meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. 
                
    Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock. The ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. 
     As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its outstanding voting stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. 
  Risks Related to Our Holding Company Reorganization 
  As a holding company, Alphabet is dependent on the operations and funds of its subsidiaries. 
  On October 2, 2015, we completed a reorganization pursuant to which Alphabet became a holding company with no business operations of its own. Alphabet s only significant assets are the outstanding equity interests in its subsidiaries, including Google. As a result, we rely on cash flows from subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including to service any debt obligations of Alphabet.  
  We may not obtain the anticipated benefits of our reorganization into a holding company structure. 
  We believe that our holding company reorganization and the current operating structure increases management scale and allows us to focus on running our diverse businesses independently with the goal of maximizing each business  potential. The benefits of this reorganization may not be obtained if circumstances prevent us from taking  
  
   19 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

advantage of the strategic and business opportunities that we expect it may afford us. As a result, we may incur the costs of a holding company structure without realizing the benefits, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
  Alphabet s management is dedicating significant effort to the Other Bets' operating structures and business operations. These efforts may divert management s focus and resources from Alphabet s overall business, corporate initiatives, or strategic opportunities, which could have an adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects. Additionally, our subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions to Alphabet, as the new holding company. 
   
                 ITEM 1B. 
    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

Not applicable. 
   
                 ITEM 2. 
    PROPERTIES 

Our headquarters are located in Mountain View, California. We also own and lease office and building space in the surrounding areas near our headquarters, which in the aggregate (including our headquarters) represent approximately 11.1 million square feet of office/building space and approximately forty-five acres of developable land to accommodate anticipated future growth. In addition, we own and lease office/building space and research and development sites around the world, primarily in North America, Europe, South America, and Asia. We own and operate data centers in the U.S., Europe, South America, and Asia. We believe our existing facilities, both owned and leased, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business. 
   
                 ITEM 3. 
    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

For a description of our material pending legal proceedings, please see   Note 10    Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Matters  of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. 
   
                 ITEM 4. 
    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 

Not applicable. 
  
   20 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

PART II 
   
                 ITEM 5. 
    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

As of October 2, 2015, Alphabet Inc. became the successor issuer of Google Inc. pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Exchange Act. 
  Price Range of Common Stock and Capital Stock 
  Our Class A common stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol  GOOG  since August 19, 2004 and under the symbol "GOOGL" since April 3, 2014. Prior to August 19, 2004, there was no public market for our stock. The following table sets forth for the indicated periods the high and low sales prices per share for our Class A common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. 

Our Class B common stock is neither listed nor traded. 
  Our Class C capital stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol  GOOG  since April 3, 2014. The following table sets forth for the indicated periods the high and low sales prices per share for our Class C capital stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. 

Holders of Record 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , there were approximately   2,100   and   2,101   stockholders of record of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock, respectively, and the closing prices of our Class A common stock and Class C capital stock were   $1,053.40   and   $1,046.40   per share, respectively, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Because many of our shares of Class A common stock and Class C capital stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. As of   December 31, 2017  , there were approximately   62   stockholders of record of our Class B common stock. 
  Dividend Policy 
  We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common or capital stock. We intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. 
  
   21 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
  The following table presents information with respect to Alphabet's repurchases of Class C capital stock during the quarter ended December 31, 2017:   

(1)   
    In October 2016, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to   $7.0 billion   of its Class C capital stock.   The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. See     Note 11   in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to share repurchases. 
               (2)   
    Average price paid per share includes costs associated with the repurchases. 
     
   22 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Stock Performance Graphs 
  The following graph compares the 5-year cumulative total return to shareholders on Alphabet Inc. s Class A common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the S P 500 index, the RDG Internet Composite index, and the NASDAQ Composite index. An investment of $100 (with reinvestment of all dividends) is assumed to have been made in the company s Class A common stock and in each index on   December 31, 2012   and its relative performance is tracked through   December 31, 2017  . The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance. 
  COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* 
  Among Alphabet Inc., the S P 500 Index, the 
  NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index 
  
  *$100 invested on   December 31, 2012   in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. 
  Copyright        2015 S P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. 
  
   23 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

The following graph compares the cumulative total return to shareholders on Alphabet Inc. s Class C capital stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the S P 500 index, the RDG Internet Composite index, and the NASDAQ Composite index. An investment of $100 (with reinvestment of all dividends) is assumed to have been made in the company s Class C capital stock and in each index on   April 3, 2014   and its relative performance is tracked through   December 31, 2017  . The returns shown are based on historical results and are not intended to suggest future performance. 
  COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* 
  Among Alphabet Inc., the S P 500 Index, the 
  NASDAQ Composite Index, and the RDG Internet Composite Index 
  
  *$100 invested on April 3, 2014 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. 
  Copyright        2015 S P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. 
  These performance graphs shall not be deemed  filed  for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference into any filing of Alphabet under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. 
  
   24 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

ITEM 6. 
    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing in Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in any future period. 

25 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

ITEM 7. 
    MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  
   
  Trends in Our Business 
  The following trends have contributed to the results of our consolidated operations, and we anticipate that they will continue to impact our future results: 
     Users' behaviors and advertising continue to shift online as the digital economy evolves. 
  The continuing shift from an offline to online world has contributed to the growth of our business since inception, resulting in increasing revenues, and we expect that this online shift will continue to benefit our business. 
     As online advertising evolves, we continue to expand our product offerings which may impact our monetization. 
  As interactions between users and advertisers change and as online user behavior evolves, we continue to expand and evolve our product offerings to serve their changing needs. Over time, we expect our monetization trends to fluctuate. For example, we have seen an increase in YouTube engagement ads, which monetize at a lower rate than traditional desktop search ads. Additionally, we continue to see a shift to programmatic buying which presents opportunities for advertisers to connect with the right user, in the right moment, in the right context. Programmatic buying has a different monetization profile than traditional advertising buying on Google properties.  
     Users are increasingly using multiple devices and modalities to access our products and services, and our advertising revenues are increasingly coming from mobile and other new formats. 
  Our users are accessing the Internet via multiple devices and modalities and want to feel connected no matter where they are or what they are doing. We seek to expand our products and services to stay in front of this shift in order to maintain and grow our business. 
  We generate our advertising revenues increasingly from mobile and newer advertising formats, and the margins from the advertising revenues from these sources have generally been lower than those from traditional desktop search. Accordingly, we expect TAC paid to our distribution partners to increase due to changes in device mix between mobile, desktop, and tablet, partner mix, partner agreement terms, and the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points. We expect these trends to continue to put pressure on our overall margins. 
     As users in developing economies increasingly come online, our revenues from international markets continue to increase and movements in foreign exchange rates impact such revenues. 
  The shift to online, as well as the advent of the multi-device world, has brought opportunities outside of the U.S., including in emerging markets, and we continue to develop localized versions of our products and relevant advertising programs useful to our users in these markets. This has led to a trend of increased revenues from international markets over time and we expect that our results will continue to be impacted by our performance in these markets, particularly as low-cost mobile devices become more available. 
  Our international revenues represent a significant portion of our revenues and are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. While we have a foreign exchange risk management program designed to reduce our exposure to these fluctuations, this program does not fully offset their effect on our revenues and earnings. 
     The portion of our revenues that we derive from non-advertising revenues is increasing and may impact margins. 
  Non-advertising revenues have grown over time. We expect this trend to continue as we focus on expanding our offerings to our users through products and services like Google Cloud, Google Play, hardware products, and YouTube subscriptions. Across these initiatives, we currently derive non-advertising revenues primarily from sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees including fees received for Google Cloud offerings. The margins on these non-advertising businesses vary significantly and may be lower than the margins on our advertising business. A number of our Other Bets initiatives are in their initial development stages, and as such, the sources of revenues from these businesses could change over time and the revenues could be volatile. 
  
   26 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

As we continue to look for new ways to serve our users and expand our businesses, we will invest heavily in R D and our capital expenditures will continue to fluctuate. 
  We continue to make significant research and development (R D) investments in areas of strategic focus such as advertising, cloud, machine learning, and search, as well as in new products and services. The amount of our capital expenditures has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate in the long term as we invest heavily in our systems, data centers, real estate and facilities, and information technology infrastructure. 
  In addition, acquisitions remain an important part of our strategy and use of capital, and we expect to continue to spend cash on acquisitions and other investments. These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our offerings, as well as expand our expertise in engineering and other functional areas. 
             
    Our employees are critical to our success and we expect to continue investing in them. 
     Our employees are among our best assets and are critical for our continued success. Their energy and talent drive Alphabet and create our success. We expect to continue hiring talented employees around the globe and to provide competitive compensation programs to our employees. 
   
  Executive Overview of Results 
  Below are our key financial results for the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2017   (consolidated unless otherwise noted): 
             
    Revenues of   $110.9 billion   and revenue growth of   23%   year over year, constant currency revenue growth of   24%   year over year. 
                
    Google segment revenues of   $109.7 billion   with revenue growth of   23%   year over year and Other Bets revenues of   $1.2 billion   with revenue growth of   49%   year over year. 
                 
    Cost of revenues was   $45.6 billion  , consisting of TAC of   $21.7 billion   and other cost of revenues of   $23.9 billion  . Our TAC as a percentage of advertising revenues was   23%  .  
                
    Operating expenses (excluding cost of revenues) were   $39.1 billion  . 
                
    Income from operations was   $26.1 billion  . 
                
    Effective tax rate was   53%  . 
                 
    Operating cash flow was   $37.1 billion  . 
                
    Capital expenditures were   $13.2 billion  . 
       
  Information about Segments 
  We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the other operating segments are combined and disclosed below as Other Bets. 
  Our reported segments are: 
             
    Google   Google includes our main products such as Ads, Android, Chrome, Commerce, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Hardware, Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure and some newer efforts like virtual reality are also included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings.       
                
    Other Bets   Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes businesses such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Nest, Verily, Waymo, and X.   Revenues from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sales of internet and TV services through Fiber, sales of Nest products and services, and licensing and R D services through Verily.     
     Please refer to   Note 15   of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. 
  
   27 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Revenues 
  The following table presents our revenues, by segment and revenue source (in millions): 

Google segment 
  The following table presents our Google segment revenues (in millions), and changes in our aggregate paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage): 

Use of Monetization Metrics 
  When assessing our advertising revenues performance, we present information regarding the percentage change in the number of paid clicks and cost-per-click for our Google properties and Google Network Members' properties. Management views these as important metrics for understanding our business. 
  Paid clicks for our Google properties represent engagement by users and include clicks on advertisements by end-users related to searches on Google.com, clicks related to advertisements on other owned and operated properties including Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play, and viewed YouTube engagement ads. Paid clicks for our Google Network Members' properties include clicks by end-users related to advertisements served on Google Network Members' properties participating in AdMob, AdSense for Content, and AdSense for Search. In some cases, such as programmatic and reservation based advertising buying, we primarily charge advertisers by impression; while growing, this represents a small part of our consolidated revenues base.  
  Cost-per-click is defined as click-driven revenues divided by our total number of paid clicks and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each engagement by users. 
  We periodically review, refine and update our methodologies for monitoring, gathering, and counting the number of paid clicks and for identifying the revenues generated by click activity. 
  
   28 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

In the first quarter of 2017, we refined our methodology for paid clicks and cost-per-click to include additional categories of TrueView engagement ads and exclude non-engagement based trial ad formats. This change resulted in a modest increase in growth of paid clicks and a modest decrease in growth of cost-per-click. For comparison purposes, we have included updated data for historical periods in the table below:  

Our advertising revenue growth, as well as the change in paid clicks and cost-per-click on Google properties and Google Network Members' properties and the correlation between these items, have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate because of various factors, including: 
             
    advertiser competition for keywords; 
                
    changes in advertising quality or formats; 
                
    changes in device mix; 
                
    changes in foreign currency exchange rates; 
                
    fees advertisers are willing to pay based on how they manage their advertising costs; 
                
    general economic conditions; 
                
    growth rates of revenues from Google properties, including YouTube, compared to growth rates of revenues from Google Network Members' properties; 
                
    seasonality; 
                
    shift in the proportion of non-click based revenues generated on Google properties and Google Network Members' properties, including an increase in programmatic and reservation based advertising buying; and 
                
    traffic growth in emerging markets compared to more mature markets and across various advertising verticals and channels. 
     Our advertising revenue growth rate has fluctuated over time as a result of a number of factors, including challenges in maintaining our growth rate as revenues increase to higher levels, changes in our product mix, increasing competition, query growth rates, our investments in new business strategies, shifts in the geographic mix of our revenues, and the evolution of the online advertising market. We also expect that our revenue growth rate will continue to be affected by evolving user preferences, the acceptance by users of our products and services as they are delivered on diverse devices and modalities, our ability to create a seamless experience for both users and advertisers, and movements in foreign currency exchange rates. 
  
   29 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Google properties 
  The following table presents our Google properties revenues (in millions), and changes in our paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage): 

Google properties revenues consist primarily of advertising revenues that are generated on: 
             
    Google search properties which includes revenues from traffic generated by search distribution partners who use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc.; and 
                
    Other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, Google Play, and YouTube. 
     Our Google properties revenues   increased     $14,003 million   from   2016   to   2017  . The growth was primarily driven by increases in mobile search resulting from ongoing growth in user adoption and usage, as well as continued growth in advertiser activity. We also experienced growth in YouTube driven primarily by video advertising, as well as growth in desktop search due to improvements in ad formats and delivery. The growth was partially offset by the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies. 
  The number of paid clicks through our advertising programs on Google properties increased from   2016   to   2017   due to growth in YouTube engagement ads, increases in mobile search queries, improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery, and continued global expansion of our products, advertisers and user base. The positive impact on our revenues from an increase in paid clicks was partially offset by a decrease in the cost-per-click paid by our advertisers from   2016   to   2017  . The decrease in cost-per-click was primarily driven by continued growth in YouTube engagement ads where cost-per-click remains lower than on our other advertising platforms. Cost-per-click was also impacted by changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product changes, product mix, property mix, and fluctuations of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies. 
  Our Google properties revenues   increased     $11,428 million   from   2015   to   2016   and also increased as a percentage of Google segment revenues. The growth was primarily driven by increases in mobile search most notably due to ongoing improvements in ad formats and delivery launched during 2016. We also experienced growth in YouTube revenue driven primarily by video advertising across TrueView with a growing contribution from ad buying on DoubleClick Bid Manager, as well as improvements in ad formats and delivery. The growth was partially offset by the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies. 
  The number of paid clicks through our advertising programs on Google properties increased from   2015   to   2016   due to growth in the adoption of YouTube engagement ads, improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery, and continued global expansion of our products, advertisers, and user base across all platforms, particularly mobile. The positive impact on our revenues from paid clicks was partially offset by a decrease in the cost-per-click paid by our advertisers. The decrease in cost-per-click was primarily driven by continued growth in YouTube engagement ads where cost-per-click remains lower than on our other advertising platforms, and also impacted by changes in device mix, property mix, product mix, geographic mix, ongoing product changes, and the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies. 
  Google Network Members' properties 
  The following table presents our Google Network Members' properties revenues (in millions) and changes in our paid clicks and cost-per-click (expressed as a percentage): 

30 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Google Network Members' properties revenues consist primarily of advertising revenues generated from ads placed on Google Network Member properties through: 
             
    AdMob; 
                
    AdSense (such as AdSense for Content, AdSense for Search, etc.); and 
                
    DoubleClick AdExchange. 
     Our Google Network Members' properties revenues   increased     $1,989 million   from   2016   to   2017  . The growth was primarily driven by strength in both programmatic advertising buying and AdMob, offset by a decline in our traditional AdSense businesses and the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies. 
  The increase in paid clicks from   2016   to   2017   resulted primarily from growth in AdMob and an increase from our traditional AdSense for Search business. The positive impact on our revenues from an increase in paid clicks was partially offset by a decrease in the cost-per-click paid by our advertisers. The changes in cost-per-click from   2016   to   2017   was impacted by changes in device mix, geographic mix, ongoing product and policy changes, product mix, property mix, and fluctuations of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies. 
  Our Google Network Members' properties revenues   increased     $565 million   from   2015   to   2016  . The growth was primarily driven by strength in programmatic advertising buying as well as strength in AdMob, offset by a decline in our traditional AdSense business and the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies. 
  The increase in paid clicks from   2015   to   2016   resulted from the growth in AdMob offset by declines in AdSense. The decrease in cost-per-click paid by our advertisers from   2015   to   2016   resulted from changes in the product mix of Google Network Members advertising revenues, ongoing product and policy changes, changes in property and device mix, geographic mix, and relative fluctuations of the U.S. dollar compared to certain foreign currencies. 
  Google other revenues 
  The following table presents our Google other revenues (in millions): 

Google other revenues consist primarily of revenues from: 
             
    Apps, in-app purchases, and digital content in the Google Play store; 
                
    Google Cloud offerings; and 
                
    Hardware. 
     Our Google other revenues   increased     $4,197 million   from   2016   to   2017  . The increase was primarily driven by revenues from Google Cloud offerings, hardware sales, and revenues from Google Play, largely relating to in-app purchases (revenues which we recognize net of payout to developers). 
  Our Google other revenues   increased     $2,926 million   from   2015   to   2016   and increased as a percentage of Google segment revenues. These increases were primarily due to     the growth in revenues from Google Play, primarily relating to in-app purchases (revenues which we recognize net of payout to developers), hardware sales, and Google Cloud offerings. 
  Other Bets 
  The following table presents our Other Bets revenues (in millions): 

Other Bets revenues consist primarily of revenues and sales from: 
             
    Internet and TV services; 
                
    Licensing and R D services; and 
                
    Nest branded hardware. 
     
   31 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Our Other Bets revenues   increased     $394 million   from   2016   to   2017  . The increase was primarily driven by revenues from sales of Nest branded hardware, Fiber internet and TV services, and Verily licensing and R D services. 
  Our Other Bets revenues   increased     $364 million   from   2015   to   2016   and increased as a percentage of consolidated revenues. These increases were primarily driven by sales of Nest branded hardware and revenues from Fiber internet and TV services. There was also an increase in revenues from     Verily licensing and R D services from   2015   to   2016  . 
  Due to the early stage of our Other Bets businesses and because their revenues aggregate a number of businesses operating in different industries, our Other Bets revenues may fluctuate in future periods. Additionally, our Other Bets revenues may fluctuate due to one-time items. 
   
  Revenues by Geography 
  The following table presents our revenues by geography as a percentage of revenues, determined based on the billing addresses of our customers: 

For the amounts of revenues by geography, please refer to   Note 2   of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  Use of Constant Currency Revenues and Constant Currency Revenue Growth 
  The impact of currency exchange rates on our business is an important factor in understanding period to period comparisons. Our international revenues are favorably impacted as the U.S. dollar weakens relative to other foreign currencies, and unfavorably impacted as the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other foreign currencies. Our international revenues are also favorably impacted by net hedging gains and unfavorably impacted by net hedging losses. 
  We use non-GAAP constant currency revenues and constant currency revenue growth for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe the presentation of results on a constant currency basis in addition to GAAP results helps improve the ability to understand our performance because they exclude the effects of foreign currency volatility that are not indicative of our core operating results. 
  Constant currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period over period. We define constant currency revenues as total revenues excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and hedging activities, and use it to determine the constant currency revenue growth on a year-on-year basis. Constant currency revenues are calculated by translating current period revenues using prior period exchange rates, as well as excluding any hedging impacts realized in the current period. 
  Constant currency revenue growth (expressed as a percentage) is calculated by determining the increase in current period revenues over prior period revenues where current period foreign currency revenues are translated using prior period exchange rates and hedging impacts are excluded from revenues of both periods. 
  These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP. Results on a constant currency basis, as we present them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and are not a measure of performance presented in accordance with GAAP. 
  
   32 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

The following table presents our foreign exchange impact on our international revenues and total revenues (in millions): 

Our EMEA revenues from   2016   to   2017    were unfavorably impacted, primarily as a result of an unfavorable impact from hedging losses, slightly offset by a favorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates. The foreign exchange impact was due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Euro and Russian ruble, partially offset by the impact of the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the British pound and Turkish lira. 
  Our EMEA revenues from   2015   to   2016   were unfavorably impacted, primarily as a result of an unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates, offset by a favorable impact from hedging benefits. The foreign exchange impact was due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the British pound, Euro, and Russian ruble. 
  Our revenues from APAC from   2016   to   2017   were relatively flat, primarily as a result of a favorable impact from hedging benefits, offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates. The foreign exchange impact  
  
   33 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

was due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Japanese yen, partially offset by the impact of the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Australian dollar, Indian rupee, South Korean won, and Taiwanese dollar. 
  Our revenues from APAC from   2015   to   2016   were relatively flat, primarily as a result of slight favorable impacts from foreign currency exchange rates and hedging benefits. The foreign exchange impact was due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Japanese yen, partially offset by the impact of the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Indian rupee and Australian dollar. 
  Our revenues from Other Americas from   2016   to   2017    were favorably impacted, primarily as a result of a favorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates, slightly offset by an unfavorable impact from hedging losses. The foreign exchange impact was due to the U.S. dollar weakening relative to the Brazilian real and Canadian dollar, partially offset by the impact of the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to the Argentine peso. 
  Our revenues from Other Americas from   2015   to   2016   were unfavorably impacted, primarily as a result of an unfavorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates, slightly offset by a favorable impact from hedging benefits. The foreign exchange impact was due to the U.S. dollar strengthening relative to certain currencies including the Argentine peso, Canadian dollar, Brazilian real, and the Mexican peso. 
   
  Costs and Expenses 
  Cost of Revenues 
  Cost of revenues consists of TAC which are paid to Google Network Members primarily for ads displayed on their properties and amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers. 
  The cost of revenues related to revenues generated from ads placed on Google Network Members' properties are significantly higher than the costs of revenues related to revenues generated from ads placed on Google properties because most of the advertiser revenues from ads served on Google Network Members  properties are paid as TAC to our Google Network Members. 
  Additionally, other cost of revenues (which is the cost of revenues excluding TAC) includes the following: 
             
    Amortization of certain intangible assets; 
                
    Content acquisition costs primarily related to payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee); 
                
    Credit card and other transaction fees related to processing customer transactions;  
                
    Expenses associated with our data center and other operations (including bandwidth, compensation expenses (including SBC), depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs); and 
                
    Inventory related costs for hardware we sell. 
     
   34 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

The following tables present our cost of revenues, including TAC (in millions): 

(1)   
    Revenues include hedging gains(losses) which impact TAC rates. 
     Cost of revenues   increased     $10,445 million   from   2016   to   2017  . The   increase   was due to an   increase   in TAC of   $4,879 million  . The increase in TAC to distribution partners was a result of an increase in Google properties revenues and the associated TAC rate. The increase in TAC to Google Network Members was a result of an increase in Google Network Members' properties revenues and the associated TAC rate. 
   The increase in the Google properties TAC rate was driven by changes in partner agreements and the ongoing shift to mobile, which carries higher TAC because more mobile searches are channeled through paid access points. The increase in the Network Members TAC rate was driven by the continued underlying shift in advertising buying from our traditional network business to programmatic advertising buying. The increase in the aggregate TAC rate was also partially offset by a favorable revenue mix shift from Google Network Members' properties to Google properties. 
  Other cost of revenues   increased     $5,566 million   from 2016 to 2017. The   increase   was due to various factors, including an increase in data center and other operations costs, which include depreciation, compensation expenses (including SBC), energy, bandwidth, and other equipment costs as a result of business growth; hardware costs associated with new hardware launches; and content acquisition costs as a result of increased activities related to YouTube. 
  Cost of revenues increased   $6,974 million   from   2015   to   2016   due to various factors including traffic acquisition costs, data center costs, content acquisition costs, and hardware costs. The increase in traffic acquisition costs of   $2,450 million   was due to increases in advertising revenues primarily from the growth of mobile search and programmatic ad buying which carry higher TAC. The increase in other cost of revenues of   $4,524 million   was primarily due to increases in (1) data center costs including depreciation, labor, energy, bandwidth, and other equipment costs as a result of business growth, (2) content acquisition costs as a result of increased activities related to YouTube, (3) hardware costs associated with new hardware launches, and (4) stock-based compensation. 
  The aggregate TAC rate remained relatively flat from   2015   to   2016   primarily as a result of a shift of mix from Google Network Members' properties revenue to Google properties revenue. Our aggregate TAC rate was also impacted by the increase in mobile and programmatic advertising buying, which generally carry overall higher TAC. The increase in Google properties TAC rate was primarily driven by a shift to mobile and more mobile searches are subject to TAC. The increase in Network Members' TAC rate was primarily driven by the shift in advertising buying from our traditional network business to programmatic advertising buying. 
  
   35 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

We expect cost of revenues to increase in dollar amount and as a percentage of total revenues in future periods based on a number of factors, including the following: 
             
    Google Network Members TAC rates, which are affected by the continued underlying shift in advertising buying from our traditional network business to programmatic advertising buying which carries higher TAC; 
                
    Google properties TAC rates, which are affected by changes in device mix between mobile, desktop, and tablet, partner mix, partner agreement terms such as revenue share arrangements, and the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points; 
                
    Growth rates of expenses associated with our data center and other operations, content acquisition costs, as well as our hardware inventory and related costs; 
                
    Increased proportion of non-advertising revenues, whose costs are generally higher in relation to our advertising revenues; 
                
    Relative revenue growth rates of Google properties and our Google Network Members' properties. 
      
  Research and Development 
  The following table presents our R D expenses (in millions): 

R D expenses consist primarily of: 
             
    Compensation expenses, including SBC, and facilities-related costs for employees responsible for R D of our existing and new products and services; and 
                
    Depreciation and equipment-related expenses. 
     R D expenses   increased     $2,677 million   from   2016   to   2017  . The   increase   was primarily due to an increase in compensation expenses, including SBC, and facilities-related costs of $1,886 million, largely resulting from a 16% increase in headcount. In addition, there was an increase in depreciation and equipment-related expenses of $569 million. 
  R D expenses   increased     $1,666 million   from   2015   to   2016  . The   increase   was primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $667 million and an increase in labor and facilities-related costs of $326 million, both largely as a result of a 16% increase in R D headcount, partially offset by higher expenses resulting from project milestones in Other Bets in 2015. In addition, there was an increase in depreciation and equipment-related expenses of approximately $388 million and an increase in professional services of $267 million due to additional expenses incurred for consulting, outsourced services, and temporary services. 
  We expect that R D expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in future periods. 
  Sales and Marketing 
  The following table presents our sales and marketing expenses (in millions): 

Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of: 
             
    Advertising and promotional expenditures related to our products and services; and 
                
    Compensation expenses, including SBC, and facilities-related costs for employees engaged in sales and marketing, sales support, and certain customer service functions. 
     Sales and marketing expenses   increased     $2,408 million   from   2016   to   2017  . The   increase   was primarily due to an increase in advertising and promotional expenses of $1,266 million, largely resulting from increases in marketing and promotion-related expenses for our hardware products, Cloud offerings, and YouTube. In addition, there was an increase in compensation expenses, including SBC, and facilities-related costs of $853 million, largely resulting from a 6% increase in headcount. 
  
   36 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Sales and marketing expenses   increased     $1,438 million   from   2015   to   2016  . The   increase   was primarily due to an increase in advertising and promotional expenses of $679 million, largely due to increases in marketing and promotion-related expenses for our hardware products. Additionally, there was an increase in labor and facilities-related costs of $482 million, and stock-based compensation expense of $179 million, both largely resulting from a 10% increase in sales and marketing headcount. 
  We expect that sales and marketing expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in future periods. 
  General and Administrative 
  The following table presents our general and administrative expenses (in millions): 

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: 
             
    Amortization of certain intangible assets; 
                
    Compensation expenses, including SBC, and facilities-related costs for employees in our facilities, finance, human resources, information technology, and legal organizations;  
                
    Depreciation and equipment-related expenses; and 
                
    Professional services fees primarily related to audit, information technology consulting, outside legal, and outsourcing services. 
     General and administrative expenses   decreased     $113 million   from   2016   to   2017  . The   decrease   was primarily  from reduced allocations to general and administrative expenses with an offsetting increase to costs of revenues and other operating expenses. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in compensation expenses, including SBC, and facilities-related costs of $271 million, largely resulting from a 9% increase in headcount. Additionally, there was an increase in professional service fees of $253 million due to additional expenses incurred for outsourced services and consulting services. 
  General and administrative expenses   increased     $849 million   from   2015   to   2016  . The   increase   was primarily due to increases in labor and facilities-related costs of $460 million, and stock-based compensation expense of $421 million, both largely resulting from a 15% increase in general and administrative headcount  ,   as well as increases in other miscellaneous expenses. These increases were offset by a decrease in professional service fees of $194 million due to lower legal-related costs. 
  We expect general and administrative expenses will increase in dollar amount and may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues in future periods.  
  European Commission Fine 
  In June 2017, the EC announced its decision that certain actions taken by Google regarding its display and ranking of shopping search results and ads infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a  2.42 billion (approximately $2.74 billion as of June 27, 2017) fine, which was accrued in the second quarter of 2017. 
   
  Other Income (Expense), Net 
  The following table presents other income (expense), net, (in millions): 

Other income (expense), net,   increased     $613 million   from   2016   to   2017  . This   increase   was primarily driven by  reduced costs of our foreign currency hedging activities, decreased losses on marketable securities and an increase in interest income.  
  
   37 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Other income (expense), net,   increased     $143 million   from   2015   to   2016  . This   increase   was primarily driven by an increase in interest income and decreased losses on non-marketable investments, partially offset by increased losses from our foreign currency transactions and impairments for certain assets. 
  The costs of our foreign exchange hedging activities recognized in other income (expense), net, are primarily a function of the notional amount of the option and forward contracts and their related duration, the movement of foreign exchange rates relative to the contract prices, the volatility of foreign exchange rates and forward points. The hedging costs expensed in other income (expense), net, decreased as a result of less option premiums paid after we began to use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our forecasted revenues in the fourth quarter of 2016. 
  We expect that other income (expense), net, will fluctuate in dollar amount in future periods as it is largely driven by market dynamics. 
   
  Provision for Income Taxes 
  The following table presents our provision for income taxes (in millions) and effective tax rate: 

Our provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate increased from   2016   to   2017  , due to the Tax Act that was enacted in December 2017. Please refer to   Note 14   of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. 
  Our provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate increased from   2015   to   2016  , largely due to  proportionately more earnings generated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates and discrete items in   2015   and   2016  , partially offset by the stock-based compensation benefits recognized resulting from the adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-09 (ASU 2016-09). 
  Our future effective tax rate will be affected by the Tax Act. Effective in 2018, the Tax Act reduces the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% and creates new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings and certain related-party payments, which are referred to as the global intangible low-taxed income tax and the base erosion tax, respectively. 
  Our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher statutory rates, the net gains and losses recognized by legal entities on certain hedges and related hedged intercompany and other transactions under our foreign exchange risk management program, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. 
   
  Quarterly Results of Operations 
  The following tables presenting our quarterly results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have prepared the unaudited information on the same basis as our audited consolidated financial statements. Our operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future quarters or for a full year.  
  The following table presents our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the eight quarters ended   December 31, 2017  . This table includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, that we consider necessary for a fair presentation of our consolidated financial position and operating results for the quarters presented. Both seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising expenditures and underlying business trends such as traditional retail seasonality have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our business. Commercial queries typically increase significantly in the fourth quarter of each year. These seasonal trends have caused, and will likely continue to cause, fluctuations in our quarterly results, including fluctuations in sequential revenue growth rates. 
  
   38 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Capital Resources and Liquidity 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , we had   $101.9 billion   in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities with   $62.8 billion   held by our foreign subsidiaries. Ca  sh equivalents and marketable securities a  re comprised of time deposits, money market and other funds, highly liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, debt instruments issued by foreign governments, debt instruments issued by municipalities in the U.S., corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, and asset-backed securities. From time to time, we may hold marketable equity securities obtained through acquisitions or strategic investments in private companies that subsequently go public. 
  On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was enacted and we recorded a tax liability for the one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings of   $10.2 billion  , of which   $890 million   and   $9.3 billion   were presented within  income tax payable, current  and  income tax payable, non-current,  respectively, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of   December 31, 2017  . As permitted by the Tax Act, we intend to pay the one-time transition tax in eight annual interest-free installments beginning in 2018. 
  Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flow that we generate from our operations. We have a short-term debt financing program of up to $5.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. We had no commercial paper outstanding as of   December 31, 2017  . We have a $4.0 billion revolving credit facility expiring in February 2021. The interest rate for the credit facility is determined based on a formula using certain market rates. As of   December 31, 2017  , no amounts were outstanding under the credit facility. We believe that our sources of funding will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated cash requirements including capital expenditures, working capital requirements, potential acquisitions and other liquidity requirements through at least the next 12 months.  
  As of   December 31, 2017  , we have senior unsecured notes outstanding due in 2021, 2024, and 2026 with a total carrying value of   $3.9 billion   and a total estimated fair value of   $4.0 billion  .  
  In October 2016, the Board of Directors of Alphabet authorized the repurchase of up to   $7.0 billion   of Alphabet Class C capital stock. In 2017, we repurchased and subsequently retired   5.2 million   shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of   $4.8 billion  . In January 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional   $8.6 billion   of Alphabet Class C capital stock. The repurchases are expected to be executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. 
  
   39 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

In January 2017, Temasek, a Singapore-based investment company, signed a binding commitment to purchase a non-controlling interest in Verily for an aggregate of $800 million in cash. We received the first tranche of $480 million in the first quarter of 2017 and the final tranche of $320 million in the third quarter of 2017. 
  The following table presents our cash flows (in millions): 

Cash Provided by Operating Activities 
  Our largest source of cash provided by our operations are advertising revenues generated by Google properties and Google Network Members' properties. Additionally, we generate cash through sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees including fees received for Google Cloud offerings  . 
  Our primary uses of cash from our operating activities include payments to our Google Network Members and distribution partners, and payments for content acquisition costs. In addition, uses of cash from operating activities include compensation and related costs, hardware costs, other general corporate expenditures, and income taxes. 
  Net cash provided by operating activities increased   from   2016   to   2017   primarily due to increases in cash received from advertising revenues and Google other revenues (net of payouts to app developers), offset by increases in cash paid for cost of revenues, operating expenses, and income taxes. 
  Net cash provided by operating activities increased   from   2015   to   2016   primarily due to increases in cash received from advertising revenues and Google other revenues, offset by increases in cash paid for cost of revenues and operating expenses.  Additionally, the timing of tax payments and refunds had a favorable impact to our cash flows from operations for 2016 compared to 2015. 
  Cash Used in Investing Activities 
  Cash provided by or used in investing activities primarily consists of purchases of property and equipment,  purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities in our investment portfolio, cash collateral received or returned from our securities lending program, payments for acquisitions, and the proceeds from the collection of notes receivable. 
  Net cash used in investing activities increased   slightly from   2016   to   2017   primarily due to increases in purchases of marketable securities and increases in purchases of property and equipment, offset by increases in the maturities and sales of marketable securities, decreases in cash collateral paid related to securities lending, and increase in proceeds received from collections of notes receivables. 
  Net cash used in investing activities increased   from   2015   to   2016   primarily due to increases in purchases of marketable securities, increases in cash collateral paid related to securities lending and increases in spend related to acquisitions, partially offset by increases in maturities and sales of marketable securities and decreases in purchases of non-marketable investments. 
  Cash Used in Financing Activities 
  Cash used in financing activities consists primarily of net proceeds or payments from issuance or repayments of debt, repurchases of capital stock, and net proceeds or payments from stock-based award activities. 
  Net cash used in financing activities decreased   slightly from   2016   to   2017   primarily driven by decreases in the net cash outflow from repayments and issuance of debt, offset by increases in the repurchases of capital stock.  
  Net cash used in financing activities increased   from   2015   to   2016   primarily driven by decreases in proceeds from issuance of debt, and increases in the repurchases of capital stock and net payments related to stock-based award activities, partially offset by a decrease in debt repayments.  
  
   40 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Contractual Obligations as of   December 31, 2017 
  The following summarizes our contractual obligations as of   December 31, 2017   (in millions): 

(1)   
    For further information, refer to   Note 10   of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
               (2)   
    Represents non-cancelable contractual obligations primarily related to data center operations and build-outs; digital media content licensing arrangements; and purchases of inventory. The amounts included above represent the non-cancelable portion of agreements or the minimum cancellation fee. For those agreements with variable terms, we do not estimate the non-cancelable obligation beyond any minimum quantities and/or pricing as of   December 31, 2017  . Excluded from the table above are open orders for purchases that support normal operations. 
               (3)   
    Represents our principal and interest payments. For further information on long-term debt, refer to   Note 6   of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
               (4)   
    Represents one-time transition tax payable related to known amounts of cash taxes payable in future years as a result of the Tax Act. For further information, refer to   Note 14   of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Excluded from the table above are long-term taxes payable of   $3.5 billion   as of   December 31, 2017   related to uncertain tax positions. At this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments for uncertain tax positions in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes. 
               (5)   
    Represents cash obligations recorded on our consolidated balance sheets, including the short-term portion of these long-term liabilities, and consist primarily of facility build-outs and payments owed in connection with certain commercial agreements. 
      
  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that is material to investors. 
   
  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
  We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). In doing so, we have to make estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, as well as related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In some cases, we could reasonably have used different accounting policies and estimates. In some cases, changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from our estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition or results of operations will be affected. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as critical accounting policies and estimates, which we discuss further below. We have reviewed our critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. 
  Please see   Note 1   of Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the summary of significant accounting policies. 
  
   41 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Revenues 
  For the sale of third-party goods and services, we evaluate whether we are the principal, and report revenues on a gross basis, or an agent, and report revenues on a net basis. In this assessment, we consider if we obtain control of the specified goods or services before they are transferred to the customer, as well as other indicators such as the party primarily responsible for fulfillment, inventory risk, and discretion in establishing price. 
  Income Taxes 
  We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions, determining our provision for income taxes, and evaluating the impact of the Tax Act. 
  The Tax Act was enacted on December 22, 2017 and introduces significant changes to U.S. income tax law. Effective in 2018, the Tax Act reduces the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% and creates new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings and certain related-party payments, which are referred to as the global intangible low-taxed income tax and the base erosion tax, respectively. In addition, in 2017 we are subject to a one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax. Accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act requires significant judgments and estimates in the interpretation and calculations of the provisions of the Tax Act.  
  Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we have made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. As we collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS or other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts. Those adjustments may materially impact the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made. The accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Tax Act will be completed in 2018. 
  Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate in the period in which such determination is made.  
  The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate as well as the related net interest and penalties. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities which may assert assessments against us. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations and assessments to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. 
  Loss Contingencies 
  We are regularly subject to claims, suits, government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition and antitrust, intellectual property, privacy, non-income taxes, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, and other matters. Certain of these matters include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the possible loss in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  We evaluate, on a regular basis, developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments and changes to our disclosures as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both the likelihood of there being, and the estimated amount of, a loss related to such matters. Until the final resolution of such matters, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could be material. Should any of our estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material impact on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. See   Note 10   of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding contingencies. 
  Business Combinations 
  We allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. When determining the fair values  
  
   42 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, management makes significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. 
  Critical estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include but are not limited to future expected cash flows (primarily from customer relationships and acquired patents and developed technology) and discount rates. Management s estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. 
  Other estimates associated with the accounting for acquisitions may change as additional information becomes available regarding the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as more fully discussed in   Note 8   of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  Goodwill 
  Goodwill is allocated to reporting units expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units when changes in our operating structure occur, and if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. Goodwill impairment tests require judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit.  
  Long-lived Assets 
  Long-lived assets, including property and equipment, long-term prepayments, and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The evaluation is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows independent of other assets. An impairment loss would be recognized when estimated undiscounted future cash flows generated from the assets are less than their carrying amount. Measurement of an impairment loss would be based on the excess of the carrying amount of the asset group over its fair value. 
  Impairment of Securities 
  We periodically review our securities for impairment. If we conclude that any of these investments are impaired, we determine whether such impairment is other-than-temporary. Factors we consider to make such determination include the duration and severity of the impairment, the reason for the decline in value and the potential recovery period and our intent to sell. For marketable debt securities, we also consider whether (1) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, and (2) the amortized cost basis cannot be recovered as a result of credit losses. If any impairment is considered other-than-temporary, we will write down the asset to its fair value and record the corresponding charge as other income (expense), net. 
   
                 ITEM 7A. 
    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. 
  Foreign Currency Exchange Risk 
  We transact business globally in multiple currencies. Our international revenues, as well as costs and expenses denominated in foreign currencies, expose us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. In general, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and therefore benefit from a weakening of the U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a strengthening of the U.S. dollar. Principal currencies hedged included the Australian dollar, British pound, Canadian dollar, Euro and Japanese yen. 
  We use foreign currency forwards and option contracts, including collars (an option strategy comprised of a combination of purchased and written options) to protect our forecasted U.S. dollar-equivalent earnings from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. When the U.S. dollar strengthens, gains from foreign currency options and forwards reduce the foreign currency losses related to our earnings. When the U.S. dollar weakens, losses from foreign currency collars and forwards offset the foreign currency gains related to our earnings. These hedging contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. We designate these contracts as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. We record the effective portion of these contracts as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) and subsequently reclassify them into revenues to offset the hedged exposures as they occur. For foreign currency collars, we include the change in time value in our assessment of hedge effectiveness. For forwards and all other option contracts, we exclude the change in the forward points and time value  
  
   43 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

from our assessment of hedge effectiveness. We recognize changes of the excluded components in other income (expense), net. 
  We considered the historical trends in foreign currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that changes in exchange rates of 10% could be experienced in the near term. If the U.S. dollar weakened by 10% as of   December 31, 2016   and   December 31, 2017  , the amount recorded in AOCI related to our foreign exchange contracts before tax effect would have been approximately $920 million and $950 million lower as of   December 31, 2016   and   December 31, 2017  , respectively. The change in the value recorded in AOCI would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency change in forecasted hedged revenues when recognized. 
  In addition, we use foreign exchange forward contracts to offset the foreign exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currency of the subsidiary.  These forward contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. The foreign currency gains and losses on the assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, which are offset by the gains and losses on the forward contracts. 
  We considered the historical trends in foreign currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in exchange rates of 10% for all currencies could be experienced in the near term. These reasonably possible adverse changes in exchange rates of 10% were applied to total monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currencies at the balance sheet dates to compute the adverse impact these changes would have had on our income before income taxes in the near term. These changes would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before income taxes of approximately $40 million and $52 million as of   December 31, 2016   and   2017  , respectively. The adverse impact as of   December 31, 2016   and   2017   is after consideration of the offsetting effect of approximately $554 million and $374 million, respectively, from foreign exchange contracts in place for the months ended   December 31, 2016   and   December 31, 2017  .  
  Interest Rate Risk 
  Our investment strategy is to achieve a return that will allow us to preserve capital and maintain liquidity requirements. We invest primarily in debt securities including those of the U.S. government and its agencies, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, money market and other funds, municipal securities, time deposits, asset backed securities, and debt instruments issued by foreign governments. By policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. Our investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning securities carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted if interest rates fall. Unrealized  gains or losses on our marketable debt securities are primarily due to interest rate fluctuations as a result of higher market interest rates compared to interest rates at the time of purchase. We account for both fixed and variable rate securities at fair value with changes on gains and losses recorded in AOCI until the securities are sold.  
  To enhance our assessment of the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we use value-at-risk (VaR) analysis to determine the potential impact of fluctuations in interest rates on the value of our marketable debt security portfolio. The VaR is the expected loss in fair value, for a given confidence interval, for our investment portfolio due to adverse movements in interest rates. We use a variance/covariance VaR model with 95% confidence interval. The estimated one-day loss in fair value of our marketable debt securities as of   December 31, 2016   and   2017   are shown below (in millions): 

Actual future gains and losses associated with our marketable debt security portfolio may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed as of   December 31, 2016   and   2017   due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount of changes in interest rates and our actual exposures and positions. VaR analysis is not intended to represent actual losses but is used as a risk estimation. 
  
   44 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

ITEM 8. 
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

Alphabet Inc. 
  INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Page 
       Reports of Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
    46 
      Financial Statements: 
      
       Consolidated Balance Sheets  
    48 
       Consolidated Statements of Income  
    49 
       Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  
    50 
       Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity  
    51 
       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  
    52 
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
    53 

The supplementary financial information required by this Item 8 is included in Item 7 under the caption  Quarterly Results of Operations.  
  
   45 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

REPORT OF ERNST   YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Alphabet Inc. 
  Opinion on the Financial Statements 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Alphabet Inc. (the Company) as of   December 31, 2016   and   2017  , the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders  equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   December 31, 2017  , and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)2 (collectively referred to as the  financial statements ). In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at   December 31, 2016   and   2017  , and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   December 31, 2017  , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report   February 5, 2018   expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
  Basis for Opinion 
  These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

46 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

REPORT OF ERNST   YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Alphabet Inc. 
  Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  We have audited Alphabet Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2017  , based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Alphabet Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2017  , based on the COSO criteria. 
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of   December 31, 2016   and   2017  , and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders  equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   December 31, 2017  , and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)2, of the Company and our report dated   February 5, 2018   expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
  Basis for Opinion 
  The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. 
  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  Definition and Limitation of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

47 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Alphabet Inc. 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  (In millions, except share and par value amounts which are reflected in thousands, 
  and par value per share amounts) 

See accompanying notes. 
  
   48 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Alphabet Inc. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
  (In millions, except per share amounts) 

See accompanying notes. 
  
   49 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Alphabet Inc. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
  (In millions) 

See accompanying notes. 
  
   50 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Alphabet Inc. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 
  (In millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands) 

See accompanying notes. 
  
   51 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Alphabet Inc. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
  (In millions) 

See accompanying notes. 
  
   52 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Alphabet Inc. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
   
  Note 1.      Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    
  Nature of Operations 
  Google was incorporated in California in September 1998 and re-incorporated in the State of Delaware in August 2003. In 2015, we implemented a holding company reorganization, and as a result, Alphabet Inc. (Alphabet) became the successor issuer to Google. 
  We generate revenues primarily by delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising. 
  Basis of Consolidation 
  The consolidated financial statements of Alphabet include the accounts of Alphabet and entities consolidated under the variable interest and voting models. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.  
  Use of Estimates 
  Preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and disclosed in the financial statements and the accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the accounts receivable and sales allowances, fair values of financial instruments, intangible assets and goodwill, useful lives of intangible assets and property and equipment, income taxes, and contingent liabilities, among others. We base our estimates on assumptions, both historical and forward looking, that are believed to be reasonable, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. 
  Revenue Recognition 
  We recognize revenues when we transfer control of promised goods or services to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. 
  See Note 2 for further discussion on Revenues. 
  Cost of Revenues 
  Cost of revenues consists of TAC and other costs of revenues.  
  TAC represents the amounts paid to Google Network Members primarily for ads displayed on their properties and amounts paid to our distribution partners who make available our search access points and services. Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers. 
  Other costs of revenues (which is the cost of revenues excluding TAC) include the following: 
             
    Amortization of certain intangible assets; 
                
    Content acquisition costs primarily related to payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee); 
                
    Credit card and other transaction fees related to processing customer transactions;  
                
    Expenses associated with our data centers and other operations (including bandwidth, compensation expense (including SBC), depreciation, energy, and other equipment costs); and 
                
    Inventory related costs for hardware we sell. 
     Stock-based Compensation 
  Stock-based compensation primarily consists of Alphabet restricted stock units (RSUs). RSUs are equity classified and measured at the fair market value of the underlying stock at the grant date. We recognize RSU expense using the straight-line attribution method over the requisite service period and account for forfeitures as they occur. 
  For RSUs, shares are issued on the vesting dates net of the applicable statutory tax withholding to be paid by us on behalf of our employees. As a result, fewer shares are issued than the number of RSUs outstanding. We record a liability for the tax withholding to be paid by us as a reduction to additional paid-in capital. 
  Additionally, stock-based compensation includes other types of stock-based awards that may be settled in the stock of our subsidiaries or in cash. Certain awards are liability classified and are remeasured at fair value through settlement. 
  Performance Fees 
  We have compensation arrangements with payouts based on investment returns. We recognize compensation expense based on the estimated payouts. The amounts are recorded in general and administrative expenses and were not material for the years ended December 31,   2015  ,   2016  , and   2017  . 
  Certain Risks and Concentrations 
  Our revenues are primarily derived from online advertising, the market for which is highly competitive and rapidly changing. In addition, our revenues are generated from a multitude of vertical market segments in countries around the world. Significant changes in this industry or changes in customer buying or advertiser spending behavior could adversely affect our operating results. 
  We are subject to concentrations of credit risk principally from cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, foreign exchange contracts, and accounts receivable. Cash equivalents and marketable securities consist primarily of time deposits, money market and other funds, highly liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, debt instruments issued by foreign governments, debt instruments issued by municipalities in the U.S., corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, and asset-backed securities. Foreign exchange contracts are transacted with various financial institutions with high credit standing. Accounts receivable are typically unsecured and are derived from revenues earned from customers located around the world. We perform ongoing evaluations to determine customer credit and we limit the amount of credit we extend. We generally do not require collateral from our customers. We maintain reserves for estimated credit losses and these losses have generally been within our expectations. 
  No   individual customer or groups of affiliated customers represented more than   10%   of our revenues in   2015  ,   2016  , or   2017  . In   2015  ,   2016  , and   2017  , we generated approximately   46%  ,   47%  , and   47%   of our revenues, respectively, from customers based in the U.S. See   Note 2   for further details. 
  Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
  Our financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis include cash equivalents, marketable securities, derivative contracts, and non-marketable debt securities. Our financial assets that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis when impairment is identified or assets are held for sale include long-lived assets and non-marketable equity securities. Other financial assets and liabilities are carried at cost with fair value disclosed, if required. 
  Fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. As such, fair value is a market-based measurement that is determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or a liability. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value are measured and classified in accordance with a three-tier fair value hierarchy based on the observability of the inputs available in the market used to measure fair value: 
  Level 1 - Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. 
  Level 2 - Include other inputs that are based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant inputs are observable in the market or can be derived from observable market data. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to a present value using market-based observable inputs including interest rate curves, foreign exchange rates, and credit ratings. 
  Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activities. 
  The fair value hierarchy requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.  
  Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities 
  We invest all excess cash primarily in debt securities including those of the U.S. government and its agencies, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, money market and other funds, municipal securities, time deposits, asset backed securities, and debt instruments issued by foreign governments. 
  
   53 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

We classify all investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and have stated maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase as cash equivalents and those with stated maturities of greater than three months as marketable securities. 
  We determine the appropriate classification of our investments in marketable securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such designation at each balance sheet date. We have classified and accounted for our marketable securities as available-for-sale. After consideration of our risk versus reward objectives, as well as our liquidity requirements, we may sell these securities prior to their stated maturities. As we view these securities as available to support current operations, we classify highly liquid securities with maturities beyond 12 months as current assets under the caption marketable securities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We carry these securities at fair value, and report the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, as a component of stockholders  equity, except for unrealized losses determined to be other-than-temporary, which we record within other income (expense), net. We determine any realized gains or losses on the sale of marketable securities on a specific identification method, and we record such gains and losses as a component of other income (expense), net. 
  Non-Marketable Investments 
  We account for non-marketable equity investments either under the equity or cost method. Investments through which we exercise significant influence but do not have control over the investee are accounted for under the equity method. Investments through which we are not able to exercise significant influence over the investee are accounted for under the cost method. We classify non-marketable investments as non-current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as those investments do not have stated contractual maturity dates. 
  We account for our non-marketable investments that meet the definition of a debt security as available-for-sale securities.  
  Variable Interest Entities 
  We determine at the inception of each arrangement whether an entity in which we have made an investment or in which we have other variable interests in is considered a Variable Interest Entity (VIE). We consolidate VIEs when we are deemed to be the primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary of a VIE is the party that meets both of the following criteria: (1) has the power to make decisions that most significantly affect the economic performance of the VIE; and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that in either case could potentially be significant to the VIE. Periodically, we determine whether any changes in our interest or relationship with the entity impact our determination of whether the entity is still a VIE and, if so, whether we are the primary beneficiary. If we are not deemed to be the primary beneficiary in a VIE, we account for the investment or other variable interests in a VIE in accordance with applicable GAAP. 
  Impairment of Investments 
  We periodically review our investments for impairment. If we conclude that any of these investments are impaired, we determine whether such impairment is other-than-temporary. Factors we consider to make such determination include the duration and severity of the impairment, the reason for the decline in value and the potential recovery period and our intent to sell. For debt securities, we also consider whether (1) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, and (2) the amortized cost basis cannot be recovered as a result of credit losses. If any impairment is considered other-than-temporary, we will write down the asset to its fair value and record the corresponding charge as other income (expense), net. 
  Accounts Receivable 
  We record accounts receivable at the invoiced amount. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts to reserve for potentially uncollectible receivables. We review the accounts receivable by amounts due by customers which are past due to identify specific customers with known disputes or collectability issues. In determining the amount of the reserve, we make judgments about the creditworthiness of significant customers based on ongoing credit evaluations. We also maintain a sales allowance to reserve for potential credits issued to customers. We determine the amount of the reserve based on historical credits issued. 
  Property and Equipment 
  We account for property and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation. We compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. We depreciate buildings over periods up to   25   years. We generally depreciate information technology assets over periods up to   7   years. We depreciate leasehold improvements over the shorter of the remaining lease term or the estimated useful lives of the assets. Construction in progress is the construction or development of property and equipment that have not yet been placed in service for  
  
   54 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

our intended use. Depreciation for equipment, buildings, and leasehold improvements commences once they are ready for our intended use. Land is not depreciated. 
  Inventory 
  Inventory consists primarily of finished goods and is stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value.  Cost is computed using the first-in, first-out method. 
  Software Development Costs 
  We expense software development costs, including costs to develop software products or the software component of products to be sold, leased, or marketed to external users, before technological feasibility is reached. Technological feasibility is typically reached shortly before the release of such products and as a result, development costs that meet the criteria for capitalization were not material for the periods presented. 
  Software development costs also include costs to develop software to be used solely to meet internal needs and cloud based applications used to deliver our services. We capitalize development costs related to these software applications once the preliminary project stage is complete and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used to perform the function intended. Costs capitalized for developing such software applications were not material for the periods presented. 
  Business Combinations 
  We include the results of operations of the businesses that we acquire as of the acquisition date. We allocate the purchase price of our acquisitions to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Acquisition-related expenses are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed as incurred. 
  Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets 
  We review property and equipment, long-term prepayments and intangible assets, excluding goodwill, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows that the assets or the asset group are expected to generate. If the carrying value of the assets are not recoverable, the impairment recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value. Intangible asset impairments were not material in 2015, 2016, or 2017. 
  We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the expected benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units when changes in our operating structure occur, and if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. We test our goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. No goodwill impairment occurred in 2015, 2016, or 2017. 
  Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives. We amortize intangible assets on a straight-line basis with definite lives over periods ranging from   one   to   twelve   years. 
  Income Taxes 
  We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which we recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. We measure current and deferred tax assets and liabilities based on provisions of enacted tax law. We evaluate the realization of our deferred tax assets based on all available evidence and establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that they will not be realized. 
  We recognize the financial statement effects of a tax position when it is more likely than not that, based on technical merits, the position will be sustained upon examination. The tax benefits of the position recognized in the financial statements are then measured based on the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement with a taxing authority. In addition, we recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of the income tax provision. 
  Foreign Currency 
  Generally, the functional currency of our international subsidiaries is the local currency. We translate the financial statements of these subsidiaries to U.S. dollars using month-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities, and average rates for the annual period derived from month-end exchange rates for revenues, costs, and expenses. We record  
  
   55 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

translation gains and losses in accumulated other comprehensive income as a component of stockholders  equity. We reflect net foreign exchange transaction gains and losses resulting from the conversion of the transaction currency to functional currency as a component of foreign currency exchange losses in other income (expense), net. 
  Advertising and Promotional Expenses 
  We expense advertising and promotional costs in the period in which they are incurred. For the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2016   and   2017  , advertising and promotional expenses totaled approximately   $3.2 billion  ,   $3.9 billion  , and   $5.1 billion  , respectively. 
  Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
  Recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted 
  In January 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-01 (ASU 2016-01) "Financial Instruments-Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." ASU 2016-01 amends various aspects of the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. The most significant impact to our consolidated financial statements relates to the recognition and measurement of equity investments at fair value in our consolidated statements of income. We have elected to use the measurement alternative, defined as cost, less impairments, adjusted by observable price changes. We anticipate that the adoption of ASU 2016-01 will increase the volatility of our other income (expense), net, as a result of the remeasurement of our equity securities upon the occurrence of observable price changes and impairments. We will adopt ASU 2016-01 effective January 1, 2018. 
  In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02 (Topic 842) "Leases." Topic 842 supersedes the lease recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 840, "Leases." Under Topic 842, lessees are required to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for most leases and provide enhanced disclosures. Leases will continue to be classified as either finance or operating. As currently issued, entities are required to use a modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements. There are additional optional practical expedients that an entity may elect to apply. We anticipate that the adoption of Topic 842 will materially affect our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We are in the process of implementing changes to our systems and processes in conjunction with our review of existing lease agreements. We will adopt Topic 842 effective January 1, 2019 and expect to elect certain available transitional practical expedients. 
  In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13 (ASU 2016-13) "Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments" which requires the measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held at amortized cost. ASU 2016-13 replaces the existing incurred loss impairment model with an expected loss methodology, which will result in more timely recognition of credit losses. ASU 2016-13 is effective for annual reporting periods, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2019. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements. 
  In October 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-16 (ASU 2016-16) "Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory." ASU 2016-16 generally accelerates the recognition of income tax consequences for asset transfers between entities under common control. Entities are required to adopt using a modified retrospective approach with a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption for previously unrecognized income tax expense. We anticipate a retained earnings adjustment of approximately   $700 million   upon adoption related to the unrecognized income tax effects of asset transfers that occurred prior to adoption. We will adopt ASU 2016-16 effective January 1, 2018. 
  In January 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-04 (ASU 2017-04)  Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment.  ASU 2017-04 eliminates step two of the goodwill impairment test and specifies that goodwill impairment should be measured by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. Additionally, the amount of goodwill allocated to each reporting unit with a zero or negative carrying amount of net assets should be disclosed. ASU 2017-04 is effective for annual or interim goodwill impairment tests performed in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019; early adoption is permitted. We currently do not anticipate that the adoption of ASU 2017-04 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
  Recently adopted accounting pronouncements 
  In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09 (Topic 606) "Revenue from Contracts with Customers." Topic 606 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Topic 605  Revenue  
  
   56 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Recognition  (Topic 605), and requires entities to recognize revenues when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. We adopted Topic 606 as of January 1, 2017 using the modified retrospective transition method. See   Note 2   for further details. 
  In January 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-01 (ASU 2017-01)  Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business.  ASU 2017-01 provides guidance to evaluate whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses. If substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired (or disposed of) is concentrated in a single asset or a group of similar assets, the assets acquired (or disposed of) are not considered a business. We adopted ASU 2017-01 as of January 1, 2017 on a prospective basis and there was no material impact to our consolidated financial statements. 
  Prior Period Reclassifications 
  Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation. 
   
  Note 2.      Revenues    
  Adoption of ASC Topic 606, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" 
  On   January 1, 2017  , we adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of   January 1, 2017  . Results for reporting periods beginning after   January 1, 2017   are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under Topic 605. 
  We recorded a net reduction to opening retained earnings of   $15 million  , net of tax, as of   January 1, 2017   due to the cumulative impact of adopting Topic 606, with the impact primarily related to our non-advertising revenues. The impact to revenues as a result of applying Topic 606 was an increase of   $34 million   for the   twelve months ended December 31, 2017  .  
  Revenue Recognition 
  Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. 
  The following table presents our revenues disaggregated by revenue source (in millions). Sales and usage-based taxes are excluded from revenues. 

(1)   
    As noted above, prior period amounts have not been adjusted under the modified retrospective method. 
      
   57 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

The following table presents our revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the billing addresses of our customers (in millions): 

(1)   
    Regions represent Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); Asia-Pacific (APAC); and Canada and Latin America (Other Americas). 
      Advertising Revenues 
  We generate revenues primarily by delivering advertising on Google properties and Google Network Members  properties. 
  Google properties revenues consist primarily of advertising revenues generated on Google.com, the Google Search app, and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, Google Play, and YouTube. 
  Google Network Members  properties revenues consist primarily of advertising revenues generated on Google Network Members  properties. 
  Our customers generally purchase advertising inventory through AdWords, DoubleClick AdExchange, and DoubleClick Bid Manager, among others. 
  Most of our customers pay us on a cost-per-click basis (CPC), which means that an advertiser pays us only when a user clicks on an ad on Google properties or Google Network Members' properties or views certain YouTube engagement ads. For these customers, we recognize revenue each time a user clicks on the ad or when a user views the ad for a specified period of time. 
  We also offer advertising on other bases such as cost-per-impression (CPM), which means an advertiser pays us based on the number of times their ads are displayed on Google properties or Google Network Members  properties. For these customers, we recognize revenue each time an ad is displayed. 
  Certain customers may receive cash-based incentives or credits, which are accounted for as variable consideration. We estimate these amounts based on the expected amount to be provided to customers and reduce revenues recognized. We believe that there will not be significant changes to our estimates of variable consideration. 
  For ads placed on Google Network Members  properties, we evaluate whether we are the principal (i.e., report revenues on a gross basis) or agent (i.e., report revenues on a net basis). Generally, we report advertising revenues for ads placed on Google Network Members  properties on a gross basis, that is, the amounts billed to our customers are recorded as revenues, and amounts paid to Google Network Members are recorded as cost of revenues. Where we are the principal, we control the advertising inventory before it is transferred to our customers. Our control is evidenced by our sole ability to monetize the advertising inventory before it is transferred to our customers, and is further supported by us being primarily responsible to our customers and having a level of discretion in establishing pricing.  
  Other Revenues 
  Google other revenues and Other Bets revenues consist primarily of revenues from: 
             
    Apps, in-app purchases, and digital content in the Google Play store; 
                
    Google Cloud offerings; 
                
    Hardware; and 
                
    Other miscellaneous products and services. 
     As it relates to Google other revenues, the most significant judgment is determining whether we are the principal or agent for app sales and in-app purchases through the Google Play store. We report revenues from these transactions on a net basis because our performance obligation is to facilitate a transaction between app developers and end users,  
  
   58 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

for which we earn a commission. Consequently, the portion of the gross amount billed to end users that is remitted to app developers is not reflected as revenues. 
  Arrangements with Multiple Performance Obligations 
  Our contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, we allocate revenues to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. We generally determine standalone selling prices based on the prices charged to customers or using expected cost plus margin. 
  Deferred Revenues 
  We record deferred revenues when cash payments are received or due in advance of our performance, including amounts which are refundable. The   increase   in the deferred revenue balance for the   twelve months ended     December 31, 2017   is primarily driven by cash payments received or due in advance of satisfying our performance obligations, offset by   $985 million   of revenues recognized that were included in the deferred revenue balance as of   December 31, 2016  . 
  Our payment terms vary by the type and location of our customer and the products or services offered. The term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant. For certain products or services and customer types, we require payment before the products or services are delivered to the customer. 
  Practical Expedients and Exemptions 
  We generally expense sales commissions when incurred because the amortization period would have been one year or less. These costs are recorded within sales and marketing expenses. 
  We do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less and (ii) contracts for which we recognize revenue at the amount to which we have the right to invoice for services performed. 
   
  Note 3.      Financial Instruments    
  We classify our cash equivalents and marketable securities within Level 1 or Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy because we use quoted market prices or alternative pricing sources and models utilizing market observable inputs to determine their fair value. We classify our foreign currency and interest rate derivative contracts primarily within Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy as the valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and market observable data of similar instruments. 
  
   59 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities 
     The following tables summarize our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities by significant investment categories as of   December 31, 2016   and   2017   (in millions): 

(1)   
    The majority of our time deposits are foreign deposits. 
               (2)   
    The fair value option was elected for mutual funds with gains (losses) recognized in other income (expense), net. 
     We determine realized gains or losses on the sale of marketable securities on a specific identification method. We recognized gross realized gains of   $357 million  ,   $272 million  , and   $207 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2016  , and   2017  , respectively. We recognized gross realized losses of   $565 million  ,   $482 million  , and   $287 million    
  
   60 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2016  , and   2017  , respectively. We reflect these gains and losses as a component of other income (expense), net, in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
  The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of our investments in marketable debt securities, accounted for as available-for-sale securities and classified by the contractual maturity date of the securities (in millions): 

Impairment Considerations for Marketable Investments 
  The following tables present gross unrealized losses and fair values for those investments that were in an unrealized loss position as of   December 31, 2016   and   2017  , aggregated by investment category and the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous loss position (in millions):  

During the years ended December 31,   2016   and   2017  , there were   no   other-than-temporary impairment losses. During the year ended December 31,   2015  , we recognized   $281 million   of other-than-temporary impairment losses related to our marketable equity securities and fixed-income bond funds. Those losses are included in gain (loss) on marketable securities, net as a component of other income (expense), net, in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See   Note 7   for further details on other income (expense), net. 
   
  Derivative Financial Instruments 
  We recognize derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. We record changes in the fair value (i.e., gains or losses) of the derivatives in the Consolidated Statements of  
  
   61 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Income as either other income (expense), net, or revenues, or in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI), as discussed below. 
  We enter into foreign currency contracts with financial institutions to reduce the risk that our cash flows and earnings will be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We also use interest rate derivative contracts to hedge interest rate exposures on our fixed income securities and debt issuances. Our program is not used for trading or speculative purposes. 
  We enter into master netting arrangements, which reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. To further reduce credit risk, we enter into collateral security arrangements under which the counterparty is required to provide collateral when the net fair value of certain financial instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds. We can take possession of the collateral in the event of counterparty default.  As of   December 31, 2016   and   2017  , we received cash collateral related to the derivative instruments under our collateral security arrangements of   $362 million   and   $15 million  , respectively. 
  Cash Flow Hedges 
  We use foreign currency forwards and option contracts, including collars (an option strategy comprised of a combination of purchased and written options), designated as cash flow hedges to hedge certain forecasted revenue transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and at times we use interest rate swaps to effectively lock interest rates on anticipated debt issuances. These transactions are designated as cash flow hedges. The notional principal of these contracts was approximately   $10.7 billion   and   $11.7 billion   as of   December 31, 2016   and   2017  , respectively. These contracts have maturities of   2 years   or less. 
  We reflect the gains or losses on the effective portion of a cash flow hedge as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassify cumulative gains and losses to revenues or interest expense when the hedged transactions are recorded. If the hedged transactions become probable of not occurring, the corresponding amounts in AOCI are immediately reclassified to other income (expense), net. For foreign currency collars, we include the change in time value in our assessment of hedge effectiveness. For other foreign currency options and forward contracts, we exclude the change in the forward points and time value from our assessment of hedge effectiveness. We recognize changes of the excluded components in other income (expense), net. 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , the effective portion of our cash flow hedges before tax effect was a net accumulated loss of   $187 million  , of which a net loss of   $219 million   is expected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings within the next 12 months. 
  Fair Value Hedges 
  We use forward contracts designated as fair value hedges to hedge foreign currency risks for our investments denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We exclude changes in forward points for forward contracts from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. The notional principal of these contracts was   $2.4 billion   and   $2.9 billion   as of   December 31, 2016   and   2017  , respectively. 
  Gains and losses on these forward contracts are recognized in other income (expense), net, along with the offsetting gains and losses of the related hedged items. 
  Other Derivatives 
  Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist of foreign currency forward contracts that we use to hedge intercompany transactions and other monetary assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currency of a subsidiary. We recognize gains and losses on these contracts, as well as the related costs in other income (expense), net, along with the foreign currency gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities. The notional principal of the outstanding foreign exchange contracts was   $7.9 billion   and   $15.2 billion   as of   December 31, 2016   and   2017  , respectively. 
  
   62 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

The fair values of our outstanding derivative instruments were as follows (in millions): 

As of December 31, 2016 

Balance Sheet Location 
      
    Fair Value of Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments 
      
    Fair Value of Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments 
      
    Total Fair Value 
      Derivative Assets: 

Level 2: 

Foreign exchange contracts 
      
    Other current and non-current assets 
      
    $ 
    539 

$ 
    57 

$ 
    596 
      
      Total 

$ 
    539 

$ 
    57 

$ 
    596 
      
      Derivative Liabilities:  

Level 2: 

Foreign exchange contracts 
      
    Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current 
      
    $ 
    4 

$ 
    9 

$ 
    13 
      
      Total  

$ 
    4 

$ 
    9 

$ 
    13 

As of December 31, 2017 

Balance Sheet Location 
      
    Fair Value of Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments 
      
    Fair Value of Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments 
      
    Total Fair Value 
      Derivative Assets: 

Level 2: 

Foreign exchange contracts 
      
    Other current and non-current assets 
      
    $ 
    51 

$ 
    29 

$ 
    80 
      
      Total 

$ 
    51 

$ 
    29 

$ 
    80 
      
      Derivative Liabilities:  

Level 2: 

Foreign exchange contracts 
      
    Accrued expenses and other liabilities, current and non-current 
      
    $ 
    230 

$ 
    122 

$ 
    352 
      
      Total  

$ 
    230 

$ 
    122 

$ 
    352 

The effect of derivative instruments in cash flow hedging relationships on income and other comprehensive income (OCI) is summarized below (in millions): 

63 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Gains (Losses) Recognized in Income on Derivatives (Amount 
  Excluded from  Effectiveness Testing and Ineffective Portion)         (1)  

Year Ended December 31, 
      Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationship 
      
    Location 
      
    2015 
      
    2016 
      
    2017 
      Foreign exchange contracts 
      
    Other income (expense), net 
      
    $ 
    (297 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    (381 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    83 

(1)   
    Gains (losses) related to the ineffective portion of the hedges were not material in all periods presented. 
     The effect of derivative instruments in fair value hedging relationships on income is summarized below (in millions): 

(2)   
    Amounts excluded from effectiveness testing and the ineffective portion of the fair value hedging relationships were not material in all periods presented. 
     The effect of derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments on income is summarized below (in millions): 

Offsetting of Derivatives 
  We present our forwards and purchased options at gross fair values in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For foreign currency collars, we present at net fair values where both purchased and written options are with the same counterparty. Our master netting and other similar arrangements allow net settlements under certain conditions. As of   December 31, 2016   and   2017  , information related to these offsetting arrangements were as follows (in millions): 
  
   64 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Offsetting of Assets 
                                                                       
    As of December 31, 2016 

Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset 

Gross Amounts of Recognized Assets 
      
    Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets 
      
    Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets 
      
    Financial Instruments 
      
     Cash Collateral Received 
      
    Non-Cash Collateral Received 
      
    Net Assets Exposed  
      Derivatives 
    $ 
    596 

$ 
    0 

$ 
    596 

$ 
    (11 
    ) 
     (1)   
    $ 
    (337 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    (73 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    175 

As of December 31, 2017 

Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset 

Gross Amounts of Recognized Assets 
      
    Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets 
      
    Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets 
      
    Financial Instruments 
      
    Cash Collateral Received 
      
    Non-Cash Collateral Received 
      
    Net Assets Exposed 
      Derivatives 
    $ 
    102 

$ 
    (22 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    80 

$ 
    (64 
    ) 
     (1)   
    $ 
    (4 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    (2 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    10 

(1)   
    The balances as of   December 31, 2016   and   2017   were related to derivative liabilities which are allowed to be net settled against derivative assets in accordance with our master netting agreements.  
       
  Offsetting of Liabilities 
                                                                       
    As of December 31, 2016 

Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset 

Gross Amounts of Recognized Liabilities 
      
    Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets 
      
    Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets 
      
    Financial Instruments 
      
     Cash Collateral Pledged 
      
    Non-Cash Collateral Pledged 
      
    Net Liabilities 
      Derivatives 
    $ 
    13 

$ 
    0 

$ 
    13 

$ 
    (11 
    ) 
     (2)   
    $ 
    0 

$ 
    0 

$ 
    2 

As of December 31, 2017 

Gross Amounts Not Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, but Have Legal Rights to Offset 

Gross Amounts of Recognized Liabilities 
      
    Gross Amounts Offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets 
      
    Net Presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets 
      
    Financial Instruments 
      
     Cash Collateral Pledged 
      
    Non-Cash Collateral Pledged 
      
    Net Liabilities 
      Derivatives 
    $ 
    374 

$ 
    (22 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    352 

$ 
    (64 
    ) 
     (2)   
    $ 
    0 

$ 
    0 

$ 
    288 

(2)   
    The balances as of   December 31, 2016   and   2017   were related to derivative assets which are allowed to be net settled against derivative liabilities in accordance with our master netting agreements. 
      
  Note 4.      Non-Marketable Investments 
  Our non-marketable investments include non-marketable equity investments and non-marketable debt securities.  
  Non-Marketable Equity Investments  
  Our non-marketable equity investments are investments in privately-held companies accounted for under the equity or cost method and are not required to be consolidated under the variable interest or voting models. As of   December 31, 2016   and   2017  , investments accounted for under the equity method had a carrying value of approximately   $1.7 billion   and   $1.4 billion  , respectively. Our share of gains and losses in equity method investments including impairment was a net loss of   $227 million  ,   $202 million  , and   $156 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2016  , and   2017  , respectively. As of   December 31, 2016   and   2017  , investments accounted for under the cost method had a carrying value of   $3.0 billion   and   $4.5 billion  , respectively, and a fair value of approximately   $8.1 billion   and   $8.8 billion  , respectively. The fair value of the cost method investments are primarily determined from data leveraging private-market transactions and are classified within Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. We reflect our share of equity  
  
   65 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

method investee earnings and losses and impairments of non-marketable equity investments as a component of other income (expense), net, in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
  Non-Marketable Debt Securities 
  Our non-marketable debt securities are primarily preferred stock that are redeemable at our option and convertible notes issued by private companies and measured at fair value as available for sale debt securities. The cost of these securities was   $1.1 billion   as of   December 31, 2016   and   2017  . These debt securities do not have readily determinable market values and are categorized accordingly as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. To estimate the fair value of these securities, we use a combination of valuation methodologies, including market and income approaches based on prior transaction prices; estimated timing, probability, and amount of cash flows; and illiquidity considerations. Financial information of private companies may not be available and consequently we estimate the value based on the best available information at the measurement date.  
  The following table presents a reconciliation for our non-marketable debt securities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) (in millions): 

Note 5.      Variable Interest Entities (VIEs)    
  Consolidated VIEs 
  We consolidate VIEs in which we hold a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary. The results of operations and statements of financial position of these VIEs are included in our consolidated financial statements.  
   For certain consolidated VIEs, their assets are not available to us and their creditors do not have recourse to us. As of   December 31, 2016   and   2017  , assets that can only be used to settle obligations of these VIEs were   $1.1 billion   and   $1.7 billion  , respectively, and the liabilities for which creditors do not have recourse to us were   $668 million   and   $997 million  , respectively.  
  Calico 
  Calico is a life science company with a mission to harness advanced technologies to increase our understanding of the biology that controls lifespan. As of   December 31, 2017  , we have contributed   $240 million   to Calico in exchange for Calico convertible preferred units and are committed to fund an additional   $490 million   on an as-needed basis.  
  In September 2014, AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie) and Calico announced a research and development collaboration agreement intended to help both companies discover, develop, and bring to market new therapies for patients with age-related diseases, including neurodegeneration and cancer. As of   December 31, 2017  , AbbVie has contributed   $750 million   to fund the collaboration pursuant to the agreement, which reflects its total commitment.   As of December 31, 2017  , Calico has contributed $  250 million   and committed up to an additional $  500 million  . 
  Calico has used its scientific expertise to establish a world-class research and development facility, with a focus on drug discovery and early drug development; and AbbVie provides scientific and clinical development support and its commercial expertise to bring new discoveries to market. Both companies share costs and profits equally. AbbVie's contribution has been recorded as a liability on Calico's financial statements, which is reduced and reflected as a reduction to research and development expense as eligible research and development costs are incurred by Calico.  
  Verily 
  Verily is a life science company with a mission to make the world's health data useful so that people enjoy healthier lives.  
  
   66 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

In   January 2017  , Temasek, a Singapore-based investment company, signed a binding commitment to purchase a noncontrolling interest in Verily for an aggregate of   $800 million   in cash. In February 2017, the first tranche of the investment closed and we received   $480 million  . The second and final tranche of the investment closed in July 2017 and we received the remaining   $320 million  . The transaction is accounted for as an equity transaction and no gain or loss was recognized. Of the   $800 million   received,   $78 million   was recorded as noncontrolling interest and   $722 million   was recorded as additional paid-in capital. Noncontrolling interest and net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest were not separately presented on our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended   December 31, 2017   as the amounts were not material. 
  Unconsolidated VIEs 
  Certain renewable energy investments included in our non-marketable equity investments accounted for under the equity method are VIEs. These entities' activities involve power generation using renewable sources. We have determined that the governance structures of these entities do not allow us to direct the activities that would significantly impact their economic performance such as setting operating budgets. Therefore, we do not consolidate these VIEs in our consolidated financial statements. The carrying value and maximum exposure of these VIEs were   $1.2 billion   and   $0.9 billion   as of   December 31, 2016   and   2017  , respectively. The maximum exposure is based on current investments to date.  We have determined the single source of our exposure to these VIEs is our capital investment in them. 
  Other unconsolidated VIEs were not material as of   December 31, 2016   and   2017  . 
   
  Note 6.      Debt    
  Short-Term Debt 
  We have a debt financing program of up to   $5.0 billion   through the issuance of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. We had   no   commercial paper outstanding as of   December 31, 2016   and   December 31, 2017  , respectively.  
  Long-Term Debt 
  Google issued   $3.0 billion   of senior unsecured notes in   three   tranches (collectively, 2011 Notes) in May 2011, due in 2014, 2016, and 2021, as well as   $1.0 billion   of senior unsecured notes (2014 Notes) in February 2014 due in 2024.  
  In April 2016, we completed an exchange offer with eligible holders of Google s 2011 Notes due 2021 and 2014 Notes due 2024 (collectively, the Google Notes). An aggregate principal amount of approximately   $1.7 billion   of the Google Notes was exchanged for approximately   $1.7 billion   of Alphabet notes with identical interest rate and maturity. Because the exchange was between a parent and the subsidiary company and for substantially identical notes, the change was treated as a debt modification for accounting purposes with   no   gain or loss recognized.  
  In August 2016, Alphabet issued   $2.0 billion   of senior unsecured notes (2016 Notes) due 2026. The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2016 Notes were used for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of outstanding commercial paper. The Alphabet notes due in 2021, 2024, and 2026 rank equally with each other and are structurally subordinate to the outstanding Google Notes. 
   The total outstanding long-term debt is summarized below (in millions): 

The effective interest yields based on proceeds received from the outstanding notes due in 2021, 2024, and 2026 were   3.734%  ,   3.377%  , and   2.231%  , respectively, with interest payable semi-annually.  We may redeem these notes at any time in whole or in part at specified redemption prices. The total estimated fair value of all outstanding notes  
  
   67 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

was approximately   $3.9 billion   as of   December 31, 2016   and   $4.0 billion   as of   December 31, 2017  . The fair value was determined based on observable market prices of identical instruments in less active markets and is categorized accordingly as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , the aggregate future principal payments for long-term debt including long-term capital leases for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows (in millions): 

Credit Facility 
  We have a   $4.0 billion   revolving credit facility which expires in February 2021. The interest rate for the credit facility is determined based on a formula using certain market rates.   No   amounts were outstanding under the credit facility as of   December 31, 2016   and   December 31, 2017  . 
   
  Note 7.      Supplemental Financial Statement Information    
  Property and Equipment, Net 
  Property and equipment, net, consisted of the following (in millions): 

As of   December 31, 2016   and   2017  , assets under capital lease with a cost basis of   $299 million   and   $390 million   were included in property and equipment, respectively.  
  Note Receivable 
  In connection with the sale of our Motorola Mobile business to Lenovo Group Limited (Lenovo) in October 2014, we received an interest-free,   three  -year prepayable promissory note (Note Receivable) due October 2017. The Note Receivable was included on our Consolidated Balance Sheets in other current assets as of December 31, 2016. Based on the general market conditions and the credit quality of Lenovo at the time of the sale, we discounted the Note Receivable at an effective interest rate of   4.5%  .   As of December 31, 2016  , the outstanding principal was   $1.4 billion   with an unamortized discount of   $51 million  , and we did not recognize a valuation allowance. The Note Receivable was fully repaid in May 2017. 
  
   68 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 
  Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following (in millions): 

(1)   
    Includes the effects of foreign exchange and interest. 
     Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 
  The components of AOCI, net of tax, were as follows (in millions): 

The effects on net income of amounts reclassified from AOCI were as follows (in millions): 

69 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Other Income (Expense), Net  
  The components of other income (expense), net, were as follows (in millions):  

(2)   
    Our foreign currency exchange losses, net, are related to the option premium costs and forward points for our foreign currency hedging contracts, our foreign exchange transaction gains and losses from the conversion of the transaction currency to the functional currency, offset by the foreign currency hedging contract losses and gains. The net foreign currency transaction losses were   $123 million  ,   $112 million  , and   $226 million   for the years ended December 31,   2015  ,   2016  , and   2017  , respectively. 
      
  Note 8.      Acquisitions    
  2017 Acquisitions 
  During the year ended   December 31, 2017  , we completed   various   acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately   $322 million  . In aggregate,   $12 million   was cash acquired,   $117 million   was attributed to intangible assets,   $221 million   was attributed to goodwill, and   $28 million   was attributed to   net liabilities assumed  . These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our offerings and expand our expertise in engineering and other functional areas. The amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately   $60 million  . 
  Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to the consolidated results of operations, either individually or in aggregate. 
  For all intangible assets acquired and purchased during the year ended   December 31, 2017  , patents and developed technology have a weighted-average useful life of   3.7   years, customer relationships have a weighted-average useful life of   2.0   years, and trade names and other have a weighted-average useful life of   8.8   years. 
  Agreement with HTC Corporation (HTC) 
  In January 2018, we completed the acquisition of a team of engineers and a non-exclusive license of intellectual property from HTC for   $1.1 billion   in cash. The transaction will be accounted for as a business combination. We expect this transaction to accelerate Google s ongoing hardware efforts. We are currently in the process of valuing the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction. We will provide all required disclosures upon the completion of the valuation in the first quarter of 2018. 
  2016 Acquisitions 
  Apigee 
  In October 2016, we completed the acquisition of Apigee Corp., a provider of application programming interface (API) management, for approximately   $571 million   in cash. We expect the acquisition to accelerate our Google Cloud customers  move to supporting their businesses with high quality digital interactions. Of the total purchase price of   $571 million  ,   $41 million   was cash acquired,   $127 million   was attributed to intangible assets,   $376 million   was attributed to goodwill, and   $27 million   was attributed to   net assets acquired  . Goodwill, which was recorded in the Google segment, is primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition and is   no  t deductible for tax purposes. 
  Other Acquisitions 
  During the year ended   December 31, 2016  , we completed other acquisitions and purchases of intangible assets for total consideration of approximately   $448 million  . In aggregate,   $12 million   was cash acquired,   $143 million   was attributed to intangible assets,   $288 million   was attributed to goodwill, and   $5 million   was attributed to   net assets acquired  . These acquisitions generally enhance the breadth and depth of our offerings, as well as expanding our  
  
   70 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

expertise in engineering and other functional areas. The amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is approximately   $67 million  . 
  Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they are not material to the consolidated results of operations, either individually or in aggregate. 
  For all intangible assets acquired and purchased during the year ended   December 31, 2016  , patents and developed technology have a weighted-average useful life of   4.5   years, customer relationships have a weighted-average useful life of   3.4   years, and trade names and other have a weighted-average useful life of   6.2   years. 
   
  Note 9.      Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets    
  Goodwill 
  The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to our disclosed segments for the years ended   December 31, 2016   and   2017   were as follows (in millions): 

Other Intangible Assets 
  Information regarding purchased intangible assets were as follows (in millions): 

Patents and developed technology, customer relationships, and trade names and other have weighted-average remaining useful lives of   3.8   years,   1.4   years, and   4.6   years, respectively.  
  Amortization expense relating to purchased intangible assets was   $892 million  ,   $833 million  , and   $796 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2016  , and   2017  , respectively. 
  
   71 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

As of   December 31, 2017  , expected amortization expense relating to purchased intangible assets for each of the next five years and thereafter are as follows (in millions):    

Note 10.      Commitments and Contingencies    
  Operating Leases 
  We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements for certain of our offices, facilities, land, and data centers throughout the world with lease periods expiring between   2018   and   2063  . We are committed to pay a portion of the actual operating expenses under certain of these lease agreements. These operating expenses are not included in the table below. Certain of these arrangements have free or escalating rent payment provisions. We recognize rent expense on a straight-line basis. 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , future minimum payments under operating leases having initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year, net of sublease income amounts, were as follows (in millions): 

(1)   
    Includes future minimum payments for leases which have not yet commenced. 
     We have entered into certain non-cancelable lease agreements with lease periods expiring between   2021   and   2044   where we are the deemed owner for accounting purposes of new construction projects. Excluded from the table above are future minimum lease payments under such leases totaling approximately   $2.1 billion  , for which a   $1.3 billion   liability is included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of   December 31, 2017  . 
  Rent expense under operating leases was   $734 million  ,   $897 million  , and   $1.1 billion   for the years ended December 31,   2015  ,   2016  , and   2017  , respectively. 
  Purchase Obligations 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , we had   $7.2 billion   of other non-cancelable contractual obligations, primarily related to data center operations and build-outs, digital media content licensing, and purchases of inventory. 
  Indemnifications 
  In the normal course of business, to facilitate transactions in our services and products, we indemnify certain parties, including advertisers, Google Network Members, and lessors with respect to certain matters. We have agreed to hold certain parties harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties. Several of these agreements limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, and our bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents. 
  It is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Additionally, we have  
  
   72 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

a limited history of prior indemnification claims and the payments we have made under such agreements have not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. However, to the extent that valid indemnification claims arise in the future, future payments by us could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in a particular period.  
  As of   December 31, 2017  , we did not have any material indemnification claims that were probable or reasonably possible.  
  Legal Matters 
  Antitrust Investigations 
  On November 30, 2010, the European Commission's (EC) Directorate General for Competition opened an investigation into various antitrust-related complaints against us.  
  On April 15, 2015, the EC issued a Statement of Objections (SO) regarding the display and ranking of shopping search results and ads, to which we responded on August 27, 2015. On July 14, 2016, the EC issued a Supplementary SO regarding shopping search results and ads. On June 27, 2017, the EC announced its decision that certain actions taken by Google regarding its display and ranking of shopping search results and ads infringed European competition law. The EC decision imposed a    2.42 billion   (approximately   $2.74 billion   as of June 27, 2017) fine. On September 11, 2017, we appealed the EC decision and on September 27, 2017, we implemented product changes to bring shopping ads into compliance with the EC's decision. We recognized a charge of approximately   $2.74 billion   for the fine in the second quarter of 2017. The fine is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as we provided bank guarantees in lieu of a cash payment for the fine. 
  On April 20, 2016, the EC issued an SO regarding certain Android distribution practices. On July 14, 2016, the EC issued an SO regarding the syndication of AdSense for Search. We responded to the SOs and continue to respond to the EC's informational requests. There is significant uncertainty as to the outcomes of these investigations; however, adverse decisions could result in fines and directives to alter or terminate certain conduct. Given the nature of these cases, we are unable to estimate the reasonably possible loss or ranges of loss, if any.  We remain committed to working with the EC to resolve these matters. 
  The Comision Nacional de Defensa de la Competencia in Argentina, the Competition Commission of India (CCI), Brazil's Council for Economic Defense (CADE), and the Korean Fair Trade Commission have also opened investigations into certain of our business practices. In November 2016, we responded to the CCI Director General's report with interim findings of competition law infringements regarding search and ads.  
  Patent and Intellectual Property Claims 
  We have had patent, copyright, and trademark infringement lawsuits filed against us claiming that certain of our products, services, and technologies infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Adverse results in these lawsuits may include awards of substantial monetary damages, costly royalty or licensing agreements, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, and may also cause us to change our business practices, and require development of non-infringing products or technologies, which could result in a loss of revenues for us and otherwise harm our business. In addition, the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) has increasingly become an important forum to litigate intellectual property disputes because an ultimate loss for a company or its suppliers in an ITC action could result in a prohibition on importing infringing products into the U.S. Because the U.S. is an important market, a prohibition on importation could have an adverse effect on us, including preventing us from importing many important products into the U.S. or necessitating workarounds that may limit certain features of our products. 
  Furthermore, many of our agreements with our customers and partners require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which would increase our costs as a result of defending such claims, and may require that we pay significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Our customers and partners may discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely impact our business. 
  Oracle America, Inc. (Oracle) brought a copyright lawsuit against Google in the Northern District of California, alleging that Google's Android operating system infringes Oracle's copyrights related to certain Java application programming interfaces. After trial, final judgment was entered by the district court in favor of Google on June 8, 2016, and the court decided post-trial motions in favor of Google. Oracle has appealed. We believe this lawsuit is without merit and are defending ourselves vigorously. Given the nature of this case, we are unable to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss, if any, arising from this matter. 
  
   73 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Other 
  We are also regularly subject to claims, suits, regulatory and government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition (such as the pending EC investigations described above), intellectual property, privacy, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury, consumer protection, and other matters. Such claims, suits, regulatory and government investigations, and other proceedings could result in fines, civil or criminal penalties, or other adverse consequences. 
  Certain of our outstanding legal matters include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages. We record a liability when we believe that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the reasonably possible loss. We evaluate developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued, and the matters and related reasonably possible losses disclosed, and make adjustments as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both likelihood of there being, and the estimated amount of, a loss related to such matters. 
  With respect to our outstanding legal matters, based on our current knowledge, we believe that the amount or range of reasonably possible loss will not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. However, the outcome of such legal matters is inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties. 
  We expense legal fees in the period in which they are incurred. 
  Non-Income Taxes 
  We are under audit by various domestic and foreign tax authorities with regards to non-income tax matters. The subject matter of non-income tax audits primarily arises from disputes on the tax treatment and tax rate applied to the sale of our products and services in these jurisdictions and the tax treatment of certain employee benefits. We accrue non-income taxes that may result from examinations by, or any negotiated agreements with, these tax authorities when a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. If we determine that a loss is reasonably possible and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the reasonably possible loss. We believe these matters are without merit and we are defending ourselves vigorously. Due to the inherent complexity and uncertainty of these matters and judicial process in certain jurisdictions, the final outcome may be materially different from our expectations. 
  For information regarding income tax contingencies, see   Note 14  . 
   
  Note 11.      Stockholders  Equity    
  Convertible Preferred Stock 
  Our board of directors has authorized   100 million   shares of convertible preferred stock,   $0.001   par value, issuable in series. As of   December 31,     2016   and   2017  ,   no   shares were issued or outstanding. 
  Class A and Class B Common Stock and Class C Capital Stock 
  Our board of directors has authorized   three   classes of stock, Class A and Class B common stock, and Class C capital stock. The rights of the holders of each class of our common and capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to   one   vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is entitled to   10   votes per share. Class C capital stock has   no   voting rights, except as required by applicable law. Shares of Class B common stock may be converted at any time at the option of the stockholder and automatically convert upon sale or transfer to Class A common stock. 
  Share Repurchases 
  In October 2015, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to   $5.1 billion   of its Class C capital stock, commencing in the fourth quarter of 2015. In January 2016, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase an additional amount of approximately   514,000   shares. The repurchases were executed, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through the use of 10b5-1 plans. During 2016, we repurchased and subsequently retired   5.2 million   shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of   $3.7 billion  . We completed all authorized share repurchases under this repurchase program as of June 2016.  
  In October 2016, the board of directors of Alphabet authorized the company to repurchase up to   $7.0 billion   of its Class C capital stock. The repurchases are being executed from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated  
  
   74 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date. During 2017, we repurchased and subsequently retired   5.2 million   shares of Alphabet Class C capital stock for an aggregate amount of   $4.8 billion  . 
   
  Note 12.      Net Income Per Share 
  We compute net income per share of Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock using the two-class method. Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of shares and the effect of potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period. Potentially dilutive securities consist of restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares. The dilutive effect of outstanding restricted stock units and other contingently issuable shares is reflected in diluted earnings per share by application of the treasury stock method. The computation of the diluted net income per share of Class A common stock assumes the conversion of Class B common stock, while the diluted net income per share of Class B common stock does not assume the conversion of those shares. 
  The rights, including the liquidation and dividend rights, of the holders of our Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock are identical, except with respect to voting. Furthermore, there are a number of safeguards built into our certificate of incorporation, as well as Delaware law, which preclude our board of directors from declaring or paying unequal per share dividends on our Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock. Specifically, Delaware law provides that amendments to our certificate of incorporation which would have the effect of adversely altering the rights, powers, or preferences of a given class of stock must be approved by the class of stock adversely affected by the proposed amendment. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that before any such amendment may be put to a stockholder vote, it must be approved by the unanimous consent of our board of directors. As a result, the undistributed earnings for each year are allocated based on the contractual participation rights of the Class A and Class B common shares and Class C capital stock as if the earnings for the year had been distributed. As the liquidation and dividend rights are identical, the undistributed earnings are allocated on a proportionate basis. Furthermore, as we assume the conversion of Class B common stock in the computation of the diluted net income per share of Class A common stock, the undistributed earnings are equal to net income for that computation. 
  In the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017, the net income per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock because the holders of each class are legally entitled to equal per share dividends or distributions in liquidation in accordance with the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Alphabet Inc. 
  In the year ended December 31, 2015, the Class C Adjustment Payment was allocated to the numerator for calculating net income per share of Class C capital stock from net income available to all stockholders and the remaining undistributed earnings were allocated on a pro rata basis to Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock based on the number of shares used in the per share computation for each class of stock. The weighted-average share impact of the Class C Adjustment Payment is included in the denominator of both basic and diluted net income per share computations for the year ended December 31, 2015.  
  The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share of Class A and Class B common stock and Class C capital stock (in millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands and per share amounts): 
  
   75 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

76 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

77 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Note 13.      Compensation Plans    
  Stock Plans 
  Under our 2012 Stock Plan, RSUs or stock options may be granted. An RSU award is an agreement to issue shares of our publicly traded stock at the time the award vests. Incentive and non-qualified stock options, or rights to purchase common stock, are generally granted for a term of   10   years. RSUs granted to participants under the 2012 Stock Plan generally vest over   four   years contingent upon employment or service with us on the vesting date. 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , there were   38,505,768   shares of stock reserved for future issuance under our Stock Plan. 
  Stock-Based Compensation 
  For the years ended   December 31,     2015  ,   2016   and   2017  , total stock-based compensation expense was   $5.3 billion  ,   $6.9 billion   and   $7.9 billion  , including amounts associated with awards we expect to settle in Alphabet stock of   $5.2 billion  ,   $6.7 billion  , and   $7.7 billion  , respectively. 
  For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, we recognized tax benefits on total stock-based compensation expense, which are reflected in the provision for income taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Income, of   $1.1 billion  ,   $1.5 billion  , and   $1.6 billion  , respectively. 
  For the years ended   December 31,     2015  ,   2016   and   2017  , tax benefit realized related to awards vested or exercised during the period was   $1.5 billion  ,   $2.1 billion   and   $2.7 billion  , respectively. These amounts do not include the indirect effects of stock-based awards, which primarily relate to the research and development tax credit. 
  
   78 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Stock-Based Award Activities 
  The following table summarizes the activities for our unvested RSUs for the year ended   December 31, 2017  : 

The weighted-average grant-date fair value of RSUs granted during the years ended   December 31,     2015   and   2016  , was   $546.46   and   $713.89  , respectively. Total fair value of RSUs, as of their respective vesting dates, during the years ended   December 31,     2015  ,   2016  , and   2017   were   $6.9 billion  ,   $9.0 billion  , and   $11.3 billion  , respectively. 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , there was   $12.9 billion   of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested employee RSUs. This amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of   2.4 years  .  
  401(k) Plans 
  We have   two   401(k) Savings Plans that qualify as deferred salary arrangements under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under these 401(k) Plans, matching contributions are based upon the amount of the employees  contributions subject to certain limitations. We contributed approximately   $309 million  ,   $385 million  , and   $448 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2016  , and   2017  , respectively. 
   
  Note 14.      Income Taxes    
  Income from continuing operations before income taxes included income from domestic operations of   $8.3 billion  ,   $12.0 billion  , and   $10.7 billion   for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2016  , and   2017  , and income from foreign operations of   $11.4 billion  ,   $12.1 billion  , and   $16.5 billion   for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2016  , and   2017  .  
  The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions): 

The   U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act)   was enacted on December 22, 2017 and introduces significant changes to U.S. income tax law. Effective in 2018, the Tax Act reduces the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% and creates new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings and certain related-party payments, which are referred to as the global intangible low-taxed income tax and the base erosion tax, respectively. In addition, in 2017 we were subject to a one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax.  
  Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we have made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of December 31, 2017. As we collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret the Tax Act and any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts. Those adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made. The accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act will be completed in 2018. 
  
   79 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Provisional amounts for the following income tax effects of the Tax Act have been recorded as of December 31, 2017 and are subject to change during 2018. 
  One-time transition tax 
  The Tax Act requires us to pay U.S. income taxes on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax at a rate of   15.5%   to the extent of foreign cash and certain other net current assets and   8%   on the remaining earnings. We recorded a provisional amount for our one-time transitional tax liability and income tax expense of   $10.2 billion  . We have recorded provisional amounts based on estimates of the effects of the Tax Act as the analysis requires significant data from our foreign subsidiaries that is not regularly collected or analyzed. 
  Deferred tax effects 
  The Tax Act reduces the U.S. statutory tax rate from   35%   to   21%   for years after 2017. Accordingly, we have remeasured our deferred taxes as of December 31, 2017 to reflect the reduced rate that will apply in future periods when these deferred taxes are settled or realized. We recognized a deferred tax benefit of   $376 million   to reflect the reduced U.S. tax rate and other effects of the Tax Act. Although the tax rate reduction is known, we have not collected the necessary data to complete our analysis of the effect of the Tax Act on the underlying deferred taxes and as such, the amounts recorded as of December 31, 2017 are provisional. 
  The net tax expense recognized in 2017 related to the Tax Act was   $9.9 billion  . As we complete our analysis of the Tax Act and incorporate additional guidance that may be issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS or other standard-setting bodies, we may identify additional effects not reflected as of December 31, 2017. 
  The reconciliation of federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate is as follows: 

Our effective tax rate for each of the years presented was impacted by earnings realized in foreign jurisdictions with statutory tax rates lower than the federal statutory tax rate. Substantially all of the income from foreign operations was earned by an Irish subsidiary. Beginning in 2018, earnings realized in foreign jurisdictions will be subject to U.S. tax in accordance with the Tax Act. 
  On July 27, 2015, the United States Tax Court, in an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, invalidated the portion of the Treasury regulations issued under IRC Section 482 requiring related-party participants in a cost sharing arrangement to share stock-based compensation costs. The U.S. Tax Court issued the final decision on December 28, 2015. The IRS served a Notice of Appeal on February 22, 2016 and the case is being heard by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. At this time, the U.S. Treasury has not withdrawn the requirement to include stock-based compensation from its regulations. We have evaluated the opinion and continue to record a tax benefit related to reimbursement of cost share payments for the previously shared stock-based compensation costs. In accordance with the Tax Act, the Altera tax benefit was remeasured from 35% to 21%.  We also remeasured the tax benefit expected to be realized upon settlement including the expected future new taxes enacted by the Tax Act due upon resolution of the matter. The tax liability recorded as of December 31, 2016 for the U.S. tax cost of the potential repatriation associated with the contingent foreign earnings was reversed due to the Tax Act introducing a territorial tax system and providing a 100% dividend received deduction on certain qualified dividends from foreign subsidiaries. We will continue to monitor developments related to the case and the potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
  
   80 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Deferred Income Taxes 
  Deferred income taxes reflect the net effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. We recorded a provisional adjustment to our U.S. deferred income taxes as of December 31, 2017 to reflect the reduction in the U.S. statutory tax rate from   35%   to   21%   resulting from the Tax Act. Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions): 

As of   December 31, 2017  , our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately   $931 million   and   $785 million  , respectively. If not utilized, the federal net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2021 and the state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2018. It is more likely than not that certain federal net operating loss carryforwards and our state net operating loss carryforwards will not be realized; therefore, we have recorded a valuation allowance against them. The net operating loss carryforwards are subject to various annual limitations under the tax laws of the different jurisdictions. Our foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were   $327 million   that will begin to expire in 2021. 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , our California research and development credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately   $1.8 billion   that can be carried over indefinitely. We believe the state tax credit is not likely to be realized. 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , we maintained a valuation allowance with respect to certain of our deferred tax assets relating primarily to investment losses that are capital in nature, California deferred tax assets, certain federal net operating losses, and certain foreign net operating losses that we believe are not likely to be realized. We established a deferred tax asset for the book-to-tax basis difference in our investments in Arris shares received from the sale of the Motorola Home business to Arris in 2013. Since any future losses to be recognized upon the sale of Arris shares will be capital losses, a valuation allowance has been recorded against this deferred tax asset to the extent such deferred tax asset is not likely to be covered by capital gains generated as of December 31, 2017. We reassess the valuation allowance quarterly and if future evidence allows for a partial or full release of the valuation allowance, a tax benefit will be recorded accordingly. 
  
   81 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Uncertain Tax Positions 
  The following table summarizes the activity related to our gross unrecognized tax benefits from January 1,   2015   to   December 31, 2017   (in millions): 

The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was   $4.2 billion  ,   $5.4 billion  , and   $4.7 billion   as of   December 31, 2015  ,   2016  , and   2017  , respectively, of which,   $3.6 billion  ,   $4.3 billion  , and   $3.0 billion   if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. The decrease in gross unrecognized tax benefits in 2017 was primarily as a result of the resolution of a multi-year U.S. audit. 
  As of   December 31, 2016   and   2017  , we had accrued   $493 million   and   $362 million   in interest and penalties in provision for income taxes, respectively. 
  We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and in many state and foreign jurisdictions, our   two   major tax jurisdictions are the U.S. federal and Ireland. We are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities. The IRS completed its examination through our 2012 tax years; all issues have been concluded except for   one   which is currently under review in the U.S. Tax Court. The IRS is currently examining our 2013 through 2015 tax returns. We have also received tax assessments in multiple foreign jurisdictions asserting transfer pricing adjustments or permanent establishment. We continue to defend any and all such claims as presented. 
  Our 2016 tax year remains subject to examination by the IRS for U.S. federal tax purposes, and our 2011 through 2016 tax years remain subject to examination by the appropriate governmental agencies for Irish tax purposes. There are other ongoing audits in various other jurisdictions that are not material to our financial statements. 
  We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing discussions with tax authorities and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions. 
  We believe that an adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in our tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with management's expectations, we could be required to adjust our provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. Although the timing of resolution, settlement, closure of audits is not certain, it is reasonably possible that certain U.S. federal and non-U.S. tax audits may be concluded within the next 12 months, which could significantly increase or decrease the balance of our gross unrecognized tax benefits. 
  We estimate that our unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2017 could possibly decrease by approximately   $500 million   in the next 12 months. Positions that may be resolved include various U.S. and non-U.S. matters. 
   
  Note 15.      Information about Segments and Geographic Areas    
  We operate our business in multiple operating segments. Google is our only reportable segment. None of our other segments meet the quantitative thresholds to qualify as reportable segments; therefore, the other operating segments are combined and disclosed as Other Bets. 
  Our reported segments are: 
             
    Google   Google includes our main products such as Ads, Android, Chrome, Commerce, Google Cloud, Google Maps, Google Play, Hardware, Search, and YouTube. Our technical infrastructure and some newer efforts like virtual reality are also included in Google. Google generates revenues primarily from advertising; sales of apps, in-app purchases, digital content products, and hardware; and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings.       
                
    Other Bets   Other Bets is a combination of multiple operating segments that are not individually material. Other Bets includes businesses such as Access, Calico, CapitalG, GV, Nest, Verily, Waymo, and X.   Revenues  
     
   82 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

from the Other Bets are derived primarily through the sales of internet and TV services through Fiber, sales of Nest products and services, and licensing and R D services through Verily.     
  Revenues, cost of revenues, and operating expenses are generally directly attributed to our segments. Inter-segment revenues are not presented separately, as these amounts are immaterial. Our Chief Operating Decision Maker does not evaluate operating segments using asset information. 
  Information about segments during the periods presented were as follows (in millions): 

(1)   
    Reconciling items are primarily comprised of the European Commission fine for the year ended December 31, 2017, as well as corporate administrative costs and other miscellaneous items that are not allocated to individual segments for all periods presented. 

(2)   
    Reconciling items are related to timing differences of payments as segment capital expenditures are on accrual basis while total capital expenditures shown on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow are on cash basis and other miscellaneous differences. 
     
   83 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Stock-based compensation (SBC) and depreciation, amortization, and impairment are included in segment operating income (loss) as shown below (in millions): 

(3)   
    Reconciling items represent corporate administrative costs that are not allocated to individual segments. 
               (4)   
    For purposes of segment reporting, SBC represents awards     that we expect to settle in Alphabet stock.  
               (5)   
    Reconciling items are primarily related to corporate administrative costs and other miscellaneous items that are not allocated to individual segments.  
     The following table presents our long-lived assets by geographic area (in millions): 

For revenues by geography, see   Note 2  . 
   
                 ITEM 9. 
    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

None. 
   
                 ITEM 9A. 
    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
  Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of   December 31, 2017  , our disclosure controls and procedures are designed at a reasonable assurance level and are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 
  Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended   December 31, 2017   that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
  
   84 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in   Internal Control Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of   December 31, 2017  . Management reviewed the results of its assessment with our Audit Committee. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2017   has been audited by Ernst   Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which is included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls and Procedures 
  In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. In addition, the design of disclosure controls and procedures must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and that management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the benefits of possible controls and procedures relative to their costs. 
   
                 ITEM 9B. 
    OTHER INFORMATION 

None. 
  
   85 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

PART III 
   
                 ITEM 10. 
    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 

The information required by this item will be included under the caption  Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance  in our Proxy Statement for   2018   Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2017   (  2018   Proxy Statement) and is incorporated herein by reference. The information required by this item regarding delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in the   2018   Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 
   
                 ITEM 11. 
    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

The information required by this item will be included under the captions  Director Compensation,   Executive Compensation  and  Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance Corporate Governance and Board Matters Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  in the   2018   Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 
   
                 ITEM 12. 
    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 

The information required by this item will be included under the captions  Common Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  and  Equity Compensation Plan Information  in   2018   Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 
   
                 ITEM 13. 
    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 

The information required by this item will be included under the captions  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  and  Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance Corporate Governance and Board Matters Director Independence  in the   2018   Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 
   
                 ITEM 14. 
    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 

The information required by this item will be included under the caption  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in the   2018   Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 
  
   86 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

PART IV 
   
                 ITEM 15. 
    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

(a)  We have filed the following documents as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: 
  1. Consolidated Financial Statements 
                  Reports of Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
    46 
      Financial Statements: 
      
       Consolidated Balance Sheets  
    48 
       Consolidated Statements of Income  
    49 
       Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  
    50 
       Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity  
    51 
       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  
    52 
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
    53 

2. Financial Statement Schedules 
  Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
  The table below details the activity of the allowance for doubtful accounts and sales credits for the three years ended   December 31, 2017   (in millions): 

Note: 
    Additions to the allowance for doubtful accounts are charged to expense. Additions to the allowance for sales credits are charged against revenues. 

All other schedules have been omitted because they are not required, not applicable, or the required information is otherwise included. 
  3. Exhibits 

87 

                    Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

_________________ 
                 u 
    Indicates management compensatory plan, contract, or arrangement. 
      * 
    Filed herewith. 
        
    Furnished herewith. 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

None. 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Annual Report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
  Date:   February 5, 2018    
    
                 ALPHABET INC. 
      By: 
    /  S  /    L  ARRY   P  AGE         
        
    Larry Page 
        
    Chief Executive Officer 
  (Principal Executive Officer of the Registrant) 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Larry Page and Ruth M. Porat, jointly and severally, his or her attorney-in-fact, with the power of substitution, for him or her in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each of said attorneys-in-fact, or his or her substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 

Table of Contents  
    Alphabet Inc. 

Signature 
    Title 
    Date 
      /  S  /    L  ARRY   P  AGE         
    Chief Executive Officer, Co-Founder, and Director (Principal Executive Officer) 
    February 5, 2018 
      Larry Page 

/  S  /    R  UTH   M. P  ORAT         
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) 
    February 5, 2018 
      Ruth M. Porat 

/  S  /    J  AMES   G. C  AMPBELL           
    Vice President, Corporate Controller, and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer) 
    February 5, 2018 
      James G. Campbell 

/S/    S  ERGEY   B  RIN           
    President, Co-Founder, and Director 
    February 5, 2018 
      Sergey Brin 

/S/    J  OHN   L. H  ENNESSY           
    Director, Chair 
    February 5, 2018 
      John L. Hennessy 

/s/    E  RIC   E. S  CHMIDT 
    Director 
    February 5, 2018 
      Eric E. Schmidt 

/  S  /    L. J  OHN   D  OERR         
    Director 
    February 5, 2018 
      L. John Doerr 

/  S  /    R  OGER   W. F  ERGUSON,   J  R  .          
    Director 
    February 5, 2018 
      Roger W. Ferguson, Jr. 

/  S  /    D  IANE   B. G  REENE         
    Director 
    February 5, 2018 
      Diane B. Greene 

/  S  /   A  NN   M  ATHER        
    Director 
    February 5, 2018 
      Ann Mather 

/  S  /    A  LAN   R  .   M  ULALLY 
    Director 
    February 5, 2018 
      Alan R. Mulally 

/s/ S  UNDAR   P  ICHAI 
    Director 
    February 5, 2018 
      Sundar Pichai 

/  S  /    K. R  AM   S  HRIRAM        
    Director 
    February 5, 2018 
      K. Ram Shriram 

/  S  /    S  HIRLEY   M. T  ILGHMAN         
    Director 
    February 5, 2018 
      Shirley M. Tilghman 

<EX-12.01>
 2
 googexhibit1201q42017.htm
 COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGE RATIOS

Exhibit 

Exhibit 12.01 

COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 

</EX-12.01>

<EX-14.01>
 3
 googexhibit1401q42017.htm
 CODE OF CONDUCT OF THE REGISTRANT AS AMENDED

Exhibit 

Exhibit 14.01 

Code of Conduct 
  Preface 
  Employees of Alphabet and its subsidiaries and controlled affiliates ( Alphabet ) should do the right thing   follow the law, act honorably, and treat co-workers with courtesy and respect. 
  We expect all of our employees and Board members to know and follow this Code of Conduct. Failure to do so can result in disciplinary action, including termination of employment. Any waivers of this Code for directors or executive officers must be approved by our Board. 
  Never retaliate against anyone who reports or participates in an investigation of a possible violation of the Code. 
  If you are employed by a subsidiary or controlled affiliate of Alphabet, please comply with your employer s code of conduct. If your employer doesn t have its own code of conduct, if you have a question or concern about this Code or believe that someone may be violating it, or if you want to remain anonymous, you can make a report of a suspected violation or concern through our Helpline. Finally, if you believe a violation of law has occurred, you can always raise that through the Ethics   Compliance helpline or with a government agency. 
  I. Avoid Conflicts of Interest 
  When you are in a business situation in which competing loyalties could cause you to pursue a personal benefit for you, your friends, or your family at the expense of Alphabet or our users, you may be faced with a conflict of interest. All of us should avoid conflicts of interest and circumstances that reasonably present the appearance of a conflict. 
  When considering a course of action, ask yourself whether the action you re considering could create an incentive for you, or appear to others to create an incentive for you, to benefit yourself, your friends or family, or an associated business at the expense of Alphabet. If the answer is  yes,  the action you re considering is likely to create a conflict of interest situation, and you should avoid it. 
  II. Ensure Financial Integrity and Responsibility 
  Ensure that money is appropriately spent, our financial records are complete and accurate, and our internal controls are honored. 
  If your job involves the financial recording of our transactions, make sure that you re familiar with all relevant policies, including those relating to revenue recognition. 
  Never interfere with the auditing of financial records. Similarly, never falsify any company record or account. 
  If you suspect or observe any irregularities relating to financial integrity or fiscal responsibility, no matter how small, immediately report them. 

III. Obey the Law 
  Comply with all applicable legal requirements and understand the major laws and regulations that apply to your work. A few specific laws are easy to violate unintentionally and so are worth pointing out here. If you have any questions about these laws or other laws governing our work, please consult the Helpline or our legal counsel. 
  1. Trade Controls 
  Various trade laws control where we can send or receive our products and services. These laws are complex and apply to: 
             
    importing and exporting goods to or from the United States and other countries 
                
    exporting services or providing services to non-U.S. persons 
                
    exporting technical data, especially data originating in the U.S. 
     If you are involved in sending or making available products, services, software, equipment, or technical data from one country to another, work with your manager to ensure that the transaction stays within the bounds of applicable laws. 
  2. Competition Laws 
  Be sure you follow all laws designed to promote free and fair competition and protect consumers. These laws generally prohibit 1) arrangements with competitors that restrain trade, 2) abuse of market power to unfairly disadvantage competitors, and 3) misleading or harming consumers.  Some of these laws carry civil and criminal penalties for individuals and companies. 
  3. Insider Trading Laws 
  Do not use non-public information to buy or sell stock, or to pass it along to others so that they may do so. That could constitute the crime of insider trading. 
  Familiarize yourself with Alphabet s Insider Trading Policy. It describes policies that address the risks of insider trading, such as: 
             
    a prohibition on hedging Alphabet stock 
                
    periodic blackout windows when you may not trade Alphabet stock 
     4. Anti-Bribery Laws 
  Various laws that prohibit bribery in different settings. Our rule is simple   don t bribe anybody, at any time, for any reason. 
  Non-government relationships. Be careful when you give gifts and pay for meals, entertainment or other business courtesies on behalf of Alphabet. Avoid the possibility that the gift, entertainment or other business courtesy could be perceived as a bribe. Provide such business courtesies infrequently and, when you do, to keep their value moderate. 
  Dealings with government officials. Various laws prohibit seeking to influence official action by offering or giving anything of value to government officials, candidates for public office, employees of government- 

owned or -controlled companies, public international organizations, or political parties. Avoid not only traditional gifts, but also things like meals, entertainment, travel, political or charitable contributions, and job offers for government officials  relatives. With pre-approval, it may be permissible to make infrequent and moderate expenditures for gifts and business entertainment for government officials that are directly tied to promoting our products or services (e.g., a modest meal at a day-long demonstration of our products). 
  IV. Conclusion 
  We rely on one another s good judgment to uphold a high standard of integrity for ourselves and our company. We expect all Board members and employees to be guided by both the letter and the spirit of this Code. 
  Adopted October 2, 2015; amended Sept 21, 2017 (updated with clarifying language regarding conflicts) 

</EX-14.01>

<EX-21.01>
 4
 googexhibit2101q42017.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21.01 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT 
    
  The following is a list of subsidiaries of Alphabet Inc., omitting subsidiaries which, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary as of   December 31, 2017  : 
                 Name of Subsidiary 
    Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization 
      Google LLC 
    Delaware 
      Google Ireland Holdings 
    Ireland 
      XXVI Holdings Inc. 
    Delaware 

</EX-21.01>

<EX-23.01>
 5
 googexhibit2301q42017.htm
 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23.01 

CONSENT OF ERNST   YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements: 

of our reports dated   February 5, 2018  , with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Alphabet Inc. and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Alphabet Inc. included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Alphabet Inc. for the year ended   December 31, 2017  . 

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP 
  San Jose, California 
  February 5, 2018 

</EX-23.01>

<EX-31.01>
 6
 googexhibit3101q42017.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT RULES 13A-14(A) AND 15D-14(A)

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.01 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
  PURSUANT TO 
  EXCHANGE ACT RULES 13a-14(a) AND 15d-14(a), 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, Larry Page, certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this   Annual Report on Form 10-K   of Alphabet Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
     Date:   February 5, 2018    
               /  S  /    L  ARRY   P  AGE 
      Larry Page 
      Chief Executive Officer 
  (Principal Executive Officer) 

</EX-31.01>

<EX-31.02>
 7
 googexhibit3102q42017.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT RULES 13A-14(A) AND 15D-14(A)

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.02 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
  PURSUANT TO 
  EXCHANGE ACT RULES 13a-14(a) AND 15d-14(a), 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, Ruth Porat, certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this   Annual Report on Form 10-K   of Alphabet Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
     Date:   February 5, 2018    
               /  S  /    R  UTH   P  ORAT 
      Ruth Porat 
      Senior Vice President and 
  Chief Financial Officer 
  (Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-31.02>

<EX-32.01>
 8
 googexhibit3201q42017.htm
 CERTIFICATIONS OF CEO AND CFO PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32.01 

CERTIFICATIONS OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
  PURSUANT TO 
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, Larry Page, certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that the   Annual Report on Form 10-K   of Alphabet Inc.   for the fiscal year ended     December 31, 2017  , fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in such   Annual Report on Form 10-K   fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Alphabet Inc. 
  Date:   February 5, 2018    
                 By: 
    /  S  /    L  ARRY   P  AGE 
      Name: 
    Larry Page 
      Title: 
    Chief Executive Officer 
  (Principal Executive Officer) 

I, Ruth Porat, certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that the   Annual Report on Form 10-K   of Alphabet Inc.   for the fiscal year ended     December 31, 2017  , fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in such   Annual Report on Form 10-K   fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Alphabet Inc. 
  Date:   February 5, 2018    
                 By: 
    /  S  /    R  UTH   P  ORAT 
      Name: 
    Ruth Porat 
      Title: 
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
  (Principal Financial Officer) 

The foregoing certifications are not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), and are not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Alphabet Inc. under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing. 

</EX-32.01>

<EX-101.INS>
 9
 goog-20171231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 10
 goog-20171231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 11
 goog-20171231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 12
 goog-20171231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 13
 goog-20171231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 14
 goog-20171231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

